Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — “Critical Accounting Policies” for more information). On a combined basis, these three wholesale drug distributors accounted for approximately 77% of our total gross sales and 61% of our net revenue in the year ended December 31, 2014, and 86% of our gross accounts receivable as of December 31, 2014. The difference between gross sales and net revenue is that gross sales is calculated before allowances for chargebacks, rebates, promotions and product returns (See “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — “Critical Accounting Policies” for more information). The table below presents the percentages of our total gross sales, net revenue and gross trade accounts receivable attributed to each of these three wholesale drug distributors as of and for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively: Amerisource, Cardinal and McKesson are key distributors of our products, as well as a broad range of health care products for many other companies. None of these distributors is an end user of our products. Generally speaking, if sales to any one of these distributors were to diminish or cease, we believe that the end users of our products would likely find little difficulty obtaining our products either directly from us or from another distributor. However, the loss of one or more of these distributors, together with a delay or inability to secure an alternative distribution source for end users, could have a material negative impact on our revenue, business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, Amerisouce, Cardinal and McKesson have recently entered into strategic alliances with Walgreens Company (now Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc.), CVS Health Corporation and Rite Aid Corporation, respectively. Since Walgreens, CVS Health and Rite-Aid are customers for several of our products, the loss of our distributor relationship with any of the three large wholesalers could result in a reduction to our revenues. We consider our business relationships with Amerisource, Cardinal and McKesson to be in good standing and we currently have fee for services contracts with each of them. However, a change in purchasing patterns, a decrease in inventory levels, an increase in returns of our products, delays in purchasing products and delays in payment for products by one or more of these distributors could have a material negative impact on our revenue, business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1A “Risk Factors –We depend on a small number of distributors, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect” for more information. Backorders.As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $19.2 million of products on backorder as compared to approximately $3.9 million of backorders as of December 31, 2013. We anticipate filling all open backorders during 2015. Government Regulation.Pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by government agencies, including the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), the FTC and other federal, state and local agencies. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “FDC Act”), the Controlled Substance Act and other federal statutes and regulations govern or influence the development, testing, manufacture, labeling, storage and promotion of products that we manufacture and market. The FDA inspects drug manufacturers and storage facilities to determine compliance with its current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”) regulations, non-compliance with which can result in fines, recall and seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal to approve NDAs and ANDAs and criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to revoke approval of drug products. FDA approval is required before any application drug product can be manufactured and marketed. New drugs require the application filing of an NDA, including clinical studies demonstrating the safety and efficacy of the drug. Generic drugs, which are equivalents of existing, off-patent brand name drugs, require the application filing of an ANDA. An ANDA does not, for the most part, require clinical studies since safety and efficacy have already been demonstrated by the product originator. However, the ANDA must, for example, provide data demonstrating the equivalency of the generic formulation in terms of bioavailability. The time required by the FDA to review and approve NDAs and ANDAs is variable and, to a large extent, beyond our control. We are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and the DEA. Throughout the five year period ended December 31, 2014, there have been no product interruptions associated with regulatory inspection or related review activities. The most recent inspections conducted during April and May of 2014 at our Somerset, New Jersey facility and May and June of 2014 at our Decatur, Illinois facility resulted in no regulatory actions. The June 2014 FDA inspection of the Akorn India operation also resulted in no regulatory actions, and site status is pending confirmation from FDA. DEA Regulation.We also manufacture and distribute several controlled-drug substances, the distribution and handling of which are regulated by the DEA. Failure to comply with DEA regulations can result in fines or seizure of product. There were no DEA citations issued to us in 2014, 2013, or 2012. Environment. We do not anticipate any material adverse effect from compliance with federal, state and local provisions that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Foreign Sales. During 2014, 2013 and 2012, approximately $16.6 million, $27.3 million, and $29.4 million of our net revenue, respectively, was related to sales to customers in foreign countries. The decline in foreign revenues in comparison to 2013 is primarily the result of reduced sales generated by AIPL, our subsidiary in India. Of our total foreign sales in 2014, 2013 and 2012, $7.2 million, $15.8 million and $16.7 million, respectively, were generated by AIPL, which exclusively sells product to customers in India and other unregulated world markets. The declining revenue generated by AIPL through the respective periods is principally the result of the Company’s decision to reduce revenues associated with comparatively low-margin contract manufacturing to focus on achieving U.S. FDA site approval. The Company’s worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its methods of operations and seeks to adopt strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. Seasonality and other Cyclical Sales Fluctuations. The majority of our products do not experience significant seasonality. We do market certain prescription pharmaceutical and consumer health products for the treatment of allergies that typically generate higher sales volume in the warmer months as well as cough and cold products which typically generate higher sales volume in the colder months, but these products do not materially impact our overall sales trends. Additionally, we market various antidote products through our Prescription Pharmaceuticals segment, the sales of which are largely timed to the expiration of existing stock held by our ongoing customers. In addition, since the fourth quarter of 2012 we have been a distributor of Tetanus and Diphtheria (“Td”) vaccines, which tends to generate higher sales in spring through fall. Government Contracts. We maintain distribution contracts with the U.S. Federal Government (“Government”), including Veteran’s Administration among others. A number of these contracts allow the Government to terminate upon written notice. We do not believe that any single termination is likely or would be material to our operations. Available Information. We file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Materials filed with the SEC can be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at100 FStreet,NE, Washington, DC20549.Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet web site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our filings are available to the public at the website maintained by the SEC,http://www.sec.gov. We also make available, free of charge, through our web site atwww.akorn.com, our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information contained on our web site is not a part of this document. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider each of the risks described below before purchasing shares of our common stock. The risk factors set forth below are not the only risks that may affect our business. Our business could also be affected by additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our growth and profitability is dependent on our ability to complete strategic acquisitions or to identify, acquire or develop, new products to market and distribute. We continue to seek growth opportunities, either by completing strategic acquisitions or by developing and introducing new pharmaceutical products. Continued improvement in our financial performance is dependent on our ability to introduce new products on an ongoing basis, whether developed internally or by third party partners, or acquired from other companies. Any delays or an inability to successfully identify suitable acquisition targets, or acquire or develop, and market and distribute new products, or acquisition or development of new products that do not yield sufficient margins, may result in adverse financial consequences to our business. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions and we may face difficulties in integrating them, which could adversely affect our operating results, increase costs and place a significant strain on our management. If we fail to manage the integration of our domestic and international acquisitions and achieve expected synergies and revenue growth, our business could be disrupted and our operating results could be negatively impacted. The operating success of both our domestic and international acquisitions involves the integration of products, processes and personnel into our existing model. In addition, the integration of international acquisitions requires both establishing and training a local management team and overseeing the operations remotely, and can involve cultural, monetary and systems challenges. Our personnel, systems, procedures, or controls may not be adequate to support both our ongoing business and the acquired businesses. If any newly-acquired businesses or assets require a disproportionate share of our resources and management’s attention, our overall financial results may suffer. Failure to obtain regulatory certification of our manufacturing facility in India for production of pharmaceutical products for export to the United States, as well as other regulated world markets, could impair our ability to grow and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate a manufacturing campus in Paonta Sahib, India, which we acquired through a business combination in 2012. The manufacturing units within this campus were built to the standards of regulated markets, including the United States, but they are not currently approved by the FDA to manufacture products for export to the United States. It is our intention to obtain certification from the FDA and other regulatory authorities to allow this facility to manufacture products for export to the United States and other regulated world markets. Obtaining such certification in a timely manner is critical to our sustaining our growth. An inability to obtain or maintain such certification could restrict our ability to achieve our growth objectives, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our operations in India may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies; any reversal of India’s recent economic liberalization and deregulation policies; as well as social stability and political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. In addition, India is known to have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in some circumstances, anti-bribery laws may conflict with some local customs and practices. As a result of our internal policies aimed at full compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar anti-bribery laws, we may be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that are not subject to, or do not comply with, such laws. Our indebtedness reduces our financial and operating flexibility. We have entered into various credit arrangements to fund certain of our operations and activities, principally business combinations. During the year ended December 31, 2014 we significantly increased our debt obligations through new term loans. As of December 31, 2014, our debt includes a $600.0 million Existing Term Loan Facility, a $445.0 million Incremental Term Loan Facility, and $87.5 million principal balance in our Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 (the “Notes”) and we also have available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities (See “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Condition and Liquidity” for definitions and descriptions of our Existing Term Loan Facility, Incremental Term Loan Facility and Notes and our credit facilities).. A high level of indebtedness subjects us to a number of adverse risks. In particular, a significant portion of our current indebtedness has variable interest terms meaning we are subject to the risks associated with higher interest rates, and moreover, a high level of indebtedness may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. In addition, our current debt arrangements require that we devote a significant portion of our cash flows to service amounts outstanding under those debt arrangements. We also are subject to various covenants with respect to our indebtedness, including the obligation to meet certain defined financial ratios and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders is restricted. Further, our indebtedness may restrict or otherwise impair our ability to raise additional capital through other debt financing, which could restrict our ability to grow our business. Our ability to meet our debt obligations, to comply with all required covenants, and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. If we do not have sufficient funds on hand to pay our debt when due, we may be required to seek a waiver or amendment from our lenders, refinance our indebtedness, incur additional indebtedness, sell assets or sell additional shares of securities. We may not be able to complete such transactions on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to undertake any of these actions successfully could result in a default on our debt obligations, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not generate cash flow sufficient to pay interest and make required principal repayments on our Term Loans. On April 17, 2014, upon completing the Hi-Tech Acquisition, we entered into a $600.0 million term loan with certain other lenders with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. acting as the administrative agent (the “Existing Term Loan”) and on August 12, 2014, upon completing the VersaPharm Acquisition, we entered into a $445.0 million term loan with certain other lenders with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. acting as the administrative agent (the “Incremental Term Loan”). These term loans significantly increased our debt obligations. The Existing Term Loan and Incremental Term Loan each bear interest at a variable rate at a margin above prime or LIBOR, at our election. In addition to our interest obligation, we are required to repay 0.25% of the principal balance quarterly, beginning with the second and first full quarter, respectively after entering into the loan agreements. The remaining outstanding balance under each of the Existing Term Loan and the Incremental Term Loan will be due and payable on April 17, 2021. If we do not generate sufficient operating cash flows to fund these payments or obtain additional funding from external sources at acceptable terms, we may not have sufficient funds to satisfy our principal and interest payment obligations when those obligations are due, which would place us into default under the terms of the Existing Term Loan and the Incremental Term Loan. Such default would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our borrowings are secured by all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. If the Company defaults on its obligations under the Existing Term Loan or the Incremental Term Loans, the lenders may be able to foreclose upon its security interest and otherwise be entitled to obtain or control Company assets. Our growth depends on our ability to timely develop and successfully market new pharmaceutical products. Our strategy for growth is dependent upon our ability to develop products that can be promoted through current marketing and distributions channels and, when appropriate, the enhancement of such marketing and distribution channels. We may fail to meet our anticipated time schedule for the filing of ANDAs and NDAs or may decide not to pursue ANDAs or NDAs that we have already submitted or anticipate submitting. Our internal development of new pharmaceutical products is dependent upon the research and development capabilities of our personnel and our strategic business alliance infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we or our strategic business alliance partners will successfully develop new pharmaceutical products or, if developed, that we will successfully commercialize these new pharmaceutical products. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will receive all necessary FDA approvals or that such approvals will not involve delays, which may adversely affect the commercial success of our products. Our failure to develop new products or to receive FDA approval of ANDAs or NDAs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if successfully developed and launched, no assurance can be given as to the actual size of the market for any product or the level of profitability and sales of the product. Generic and off-patent pharmaceuticalproducts are particularly susceptible to competition, substitutionpolicies and reimbursement policies. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify suitable branded pharmaceutical products to target for development of generic equivalents, determine or anticipate the dates when these branded pharmaceuticals are expected to come off patent, and time our product development activities accordingly so that we will be ready to manufacture and market our generic equivalent products at the most advantageous times. Generic pharmaceuticals must meet the same quality standards as branded pharmaceuticals, even though these equivalent pharmaceuticals are sold at prices that are significantly lower than branded pharmaceuticals. Generic substitution is regulated by the federal and state governments, as is reimbursement for generic drug dispensing. There can be no assurance that substitution will be permitted for newly approved generic drugs or that such products will be subject to government reimbursement. In addition, generic products developed by competing drug companies may render our generic products noncompetitive or obsolete, or may glut the market with competing products resulting in a reduction in sale price or market share for the generic products we sell. There can be no assurance that we will be able to consistently bring generic pharmaceutical products to market quickly and efficiently in the future. An increase in competition in the sale of generic pharmaceutical products or our failure to bring such products to market before our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, there is no proprietary protection for most of the branded pharmaceutical products that either we or other pharmaceutical companies sell. In addition, governmental and cost-containment pressures regarding the dispensing of generic equivalents will likely result in generic substitution and competition generally for our branded pharmaceutical products. We attempt to mitigate the effect of this substitution through, among other things, creation of strong brand-name recognition and product-line extensions for our branded pharmaceutical products, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. We are subject to extensive government regulations that increase our costs, subject us to various obligations andcould subject us to fines, prevent us from selling our products or prevent usfrom operating our facilities. We are subject to extensive government regulations that increase our costs, subject us to various obligations and could subject us to fines, prevent us from selling our products or prevent us Various federal and state government agencies regulate virtually all aspects of our business. The development, testing, manufacturing, processing, quality, safety, efficacy, packaging, labeling, record keeping, distribution, storage and advertising of our products, and disposal of waste products arising from such activities, are subject to regulation by the FDA, DEA, FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency. Similar state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over these activities. Noncompliance with applicable United States and/or state or local regulatory requirements can result in fines, injunctions, penalties, mandatory recalls or seizures, suspensions of production, recommendations by the FDA against governmental contracts and criminal prosecution. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New, modified and additional regulations, statutes or legal interpretation, if any, could, among other things, require changes to manufacturing methods, expanded or different labeling, recall, replacement or discontinuation of certain products, additional record keeping procedures and expanded documentation of the properties of certain products and additional scientific substantiation. Such changes or new legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of the regulatory risks that we are subject to are outlined below. We are subject to regulation by the FDA.All pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us, are subject to regulation by the FDA under the authority of the FDC Act. Under the FDC Act, the federal government has extensive administrative and judicial enforcement authority over the activities of finished drug product manufacturers to ensure compliance with FDA regulations. This authority includes, but is not limited to, the authority to initiate judicial action to seize unapproved or non-complying products, to enjoin non-complying activities, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMP, to recall products, to seek civil and monetary penalties and to criminally prosecute violators. Other enforcement activities include refusal to approve product applications, withdrawal of previously approved applications or prohibition on marketing of certain grandfathered products. Any such enforcement activities, especially the restriction or prohibition on sales of products we market or the halting of our manufacturing operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the FDA or other government agencies having regulatory authority over pharmaceutical products may request us to voluntarily or involuntarily conduct product recalls due to disputed labeling claims, manufacturing issues, quality defects or for other reasons. Restriction or prohibition on sales, halting of manufacturing operations, recalls of our pharmaceutical products or other enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, such actions, in certain circumstances, may constitute an event of default under the terms of our various financing arrangements. We are subject to regulation by the FDA. We must obtain approval from the FDA for each pharmaceutical product thatwe market.The FDA approval process is typically lengthy, and approval is never certain. Our new products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval and may never gain approval. Even if the FDA or another regulatory agency approves a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for a product, may otherwise limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute a product or may require post-marketing studies or impose other post-marketing obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on marketability and profitability of the new products. We must obtain approval from the FDA for each pharmaceutical product that The FDA approval process is typically lengthy, and approval is never certain. Our new products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval and may never gain approval. Even if the FDA or another regulatory agency approves a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for a product, may otherwise limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute a product or may require post-marketing studies or impose other post-marketing obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on marketability and profitability of the new products. We and our third-party manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection bythe FDA to assure regulatory compliance regarding the manufacturing,distribution, and promotion of pharmaceutical products.The FDA imposes stringent mandatory requirements on the manufacture and distribution of pharmaceutical products to ensure their safety and efficacy. The FDA also regulates drug labeling and the advertising of prescription drugs. A finding by a governmental agency or court that we are not in compliance with FDA requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our third-party manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA to assure regulatory compliance regarding the manufacturing, If the FDA changes its regulatory position, it could force us to delay orsuspend our manufacturing, distribution or sales of certain products.FDA interpretations of existing or pending regulations and standards may change over time with the advancement of associated technologies, industry trends, and/or prevailing scientific rationale. If the FDA changes its regulatory position due to such factors, it could result in delay or suspension of the manufacturing, distribution or sales of certain of our products. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals which may or may not be granted and which may be subject to a lengthy application process. Any change in the FDA’s enforcement policy or any decision by the FDA to require an approved NDA or ANDA for one of our products not currently subject to the approved NDA or ANDA requirements or any delay in the FDA approving an NDA or ANDA for one of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the FDA changes its regulatory position, it could force us to delay or suspend our manufacturing, distribution or sales of certain products. We are subject to extensive DEA regulation, which could result in ourbeing fined or otherwise penalized.We also manufacture and sell drugs which are “controlled substances” as defined in the Federal Controlled Substances Act and similar state laws, which impose, among other things, certain licensing, security and record keeping requirements administered by the DEA and similar state agencies, as well as quotas for the manufacture, purchase and sale of controlled substances. The DEA could limit or reduce the amount of controlled substances which we are permitted to manufacture and market or issue fines and penalties against us for purported non-compliance with DEA regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive DEA regulation, which could result in our We may be subject to governmental demands to continue production and marketing of certain products which we would otherwise not continue. We manufacture and sell drugs which include those identified as life-saving, essential or critical by the World Health Organization and other generic and branded drugs whose production or sale by the Company could be required by various governments or governmental agencies irrespective of the financial effects. Required production or sale of these products which we would otherwise not continue could affect our financial and operating flexibility. We may be subject to governmental demands to continue production and marketing of certain products which we would otherwise not continue We are subject to the Federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act ("DSCSA") that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period.Compliance with DSCSA and future U.S. federal or state electronic pedigree requirements may increase the Company's operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. We are subject to the Federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act ("DSCSA") that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. We depend on a small number of distributors, the loss of any of which couldhave a material adverse effect. We depend on a small number of distributors, the loss of any of which could A small number of large wholesale drug distributors account for a significant portion of our gross sales, net revenues and accounts receivable. The following three wholesalers – Amerisource, Cardinal and McKesson – accounted for approximately 77% of total gross sales and 61% of total net revenues in 2014, and 86% of gross trade receivables as of December 31, 2014. In addition to acting as distributors of our products, these three companies also distribute a broad range of health care products on behalf of many other companies. The loss of our relationship with one or more of these wholesalers, together with a delay or inability to secure an alternative distribution source for end users, could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations. In particular, Amerisource, Cardinal and McKesson have entered into strategic drug purchasing alliances with Walgreens Company (now Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc.), CVS Health Corporation and Rite Aid Corporation, respectively. The chain drugstores are customers for a number of our products. Therefore, the loss of our relationship with any of the three large wholesalers would likely result in the loss of revenue from sales to these drugstore chains. A change in purchasing patterns or inventory levels, an increase in returns of our products, penalties assessed against us for failure to supply or failure to maintain service levels, delays in purchasing products and delays in payment for products by one or more of these distributors also could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, results of operations and cash flows. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our customer base. In addition to our sales to wholesale drug distributors detailed above, a significant proportion of our sales are made to relatively few retail drug chains and managed care purchasing organizations. These customers are continuing to undergo significant consolidation. Such consolidation has provided and may continue to provide them with additional purchasing leverage, and consequently may increase the pricing pressures that we face. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies, and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions, enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. Our net sales and quarterly growth comparisons may also be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of retail chains, major distributors and other trade buyers, whether resulting from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors. In addition, since such a significant portion of our revenues is derived from relatively few customers, any financial difficulties experienced by a single customer, or any delay in receiving payments from a single customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15We may not generate cash flow sufficient to pay interest on our outstanding convertible senior notes or repurchase the notes upon a fundamental change. We may not generate cash flow sufficient to pay interest on our outstanding convertible senior notes or repurchase the notes upon a fundamental change. In June 2011, we issued $120.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes. As of December 31, 2014, $87.5 million principal balance of the Notes remains outstanding. The Notes require us to make semi-annual coupon interest payments of $2.1 million on June 1 and December 1 of each year until the Notes mature on June 1, 2016. If we do not generate sufficient operating cash flows to fund these payments or obtain additional funding from external sources at acceptable terms, we may not have sufficient funds to satisfy our interest payment obligations when those obligations are due which would place us in default under the Indenture (as defined below). If a fundamental change (as defined in the Indenture) occurs, holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase their Notes. If we fail to repurchase the Notes when required, we will be in default under the Indenture. We may need to obtain additional capital to continue to grow our business. We may require additional funds in order to materially grow our business. We require substantial liquidity to implement long-term cost savings and productivity improvement plans, continue capital spending to improve our manufacturing facilities to increase capacity and support product development programs, meet scheduled term debt and lease maturities, to effect acquisitions and to run our normal business operations. We may seek additional funds through public and private financing, including equity and debt offerings. However, adequate funds through the financial markets or from other sources may not be available to us when needed or on favorable terms. Without sufficient additional capital funding, we may be required to delay, scale back or abandon some or all of our product development, manufacturing, acquisition, licensing and marketing initiatives, or operations. Further, such additional financing, if obtained, may require the granting of rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the common stock and result in substantial dilution of the existing ownership interests of the common stockholders and could include covenants and restrictions that limit our ability to operate or expand our business in a manner that we deem to be in our best interest. Our industry is very competitive. Additionally, changes in technology couldrender our products obsolete. Our industry is very competitive. Additionally, changes in technology could We face significant competition from other pharmaceutical companies, including major pharmaceutical companies with financial resources substantially greater than ours, in developing, acquiring, manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. The selling prices of pharmaceutical products typically decline as competition increases. Further, other products now in use, under development or acquired by other pharmaceutical companies, may be more effective or offered at lower prices than our current or future products. The industry is characterized by rapid technological change that may render our products obsolete, and competitors may develop their products more rapidly than we can. Competitors may also be able to complete the regulatory process sooner, and therefore, may begin to market their products in advance of ours. We believe that competition in sales of our products is based primarily on price, service and technical capabilities. There can be no assurance that: (i) we will be able to develop or acquire commercially attractive pharmaceutical products; (ii) additional competitors will not enter the market; (iii) our existing products will not be rendered obsolete by the introduction or switch to generic of competing products; or (iv) competition from other pharmaceutical companies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by volatile general economic conditions and, or, business environment. If equity and credit market conditions prove unfavorable, we may have difficulty obtaining desired debt or equity financing, or obtaining such financing may be more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. A prolonged or profound economic downturn could result in adverse changes to product reimbursement, pricing or sales levels, which would harm our operating results. There is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive difficult economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon development plans. Moreover, our stock price may decline due to the volatility of the stock market and general economic conditions. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if we otherwise fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, timely file our periodic reports, maintain our reporting status or prevent fraud. In connection with our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, we concluded there were certain material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting related to identified control deficiencies in respect of completeness and accuracy of data used in the determination of significant estimates and accounting transactions and the process in place to support the accurate and timely reporting of financial results and disclosures. We also concluded that, as of December 31, 2014, we had inadequate controls in place to prevent or detect material errors in the financial statements of acquired subsidiaries, and an error was identified related to the chargeback reserve of Hi-Tech recognized at the acquisition date which requires the restatement of our condensed consolidated financial statements for the quarter and six-months ended June 30, 2014 and the nine months ended September 30, 2014. Note that we excluded from our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, Hi-Tech’s and VersaPharm’s internal control over financial reporting. Under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected or corrected on a timely basis. We are working to remediate the material weaknesses. With respect to validation of the completeness and accuracy of underlying data used in the determination of significant estimates and accounting transactions, management intends to:·Conduct manual data validation procedures on certain reports related to gross to net adjustments and inventory.·Enhance the design of management review controls to increase the level of precision.·Establish a dedicated revenue accounting team focused primarily on significant gross to net revenue adjustments.·Ensure all systems relied upon in the financial reporting process are subject to Information Technology General Controls (ITGCs) which are intended to prevent system changes that could affect the completeness and accuracy of the data used.With respect to timely and accurate filing of our financial results, management intends to:·Undertake a financial close process improvement project utilizing external consultants to identify efficiencies and enhance reporting capabilities as well as opportunities to reduce the incidence of errors.·Implement more robust accounting policies and work with consultants to streamline close activities and implement best practices.·Enhance communications between the accounting and tax groups to ensure timely and accurate tax considerations.·Deploy additional internal and/or external tax resources to allow for additional levels of management review controls.With respect to the financial statement of acquired subsidiaries, management intends to:·Evaluate the control environment of target acquisitions and acquired entities in a timely fashion to facilitate improvements in the subsidiary’s control environment within the year of acquisition.·Develop controls specifically designed to identify material errors within subsidiary financial statements.·Drive consistency in internal controls across all Akorn entities.·Deploy appropriate personnel with public company accounting experience at the subsidiary level, as needed.Additionally, we plan on creating a new position to oversee accounting systems, administer and monitor ITGCs, coordinate between the Company’s accounting and information technology departments, identify opportunities to streamline and improve processes through greater automation, and plan to add personnel with internal controls and process improvement capabilities within the accounting function. Responsibilities will include designing internal controls and ensuring compliance, implementing global accounting policies and procedures, and implementing process improvements.The actions that we are taking are subject to ongoing senior management review, as well as audit committee oversight.Although we plan to complete this remediation as quickly as possible, we cannot at this time estimate how long it will take, and our initiatives may not prove to be successful in remediating this material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to further restate our financial results. We are working to remediate the material weaknesses. With respect to validation of the completeness and accuracy of underlying data used in the determination of significant estimates and accounting transactions, management intends to: ·Conduct manual data validation procedures on certain reports related to gross to net adjustments and inventory.·Enhance the design of management review controls to increase the level of precision.·Establish a dedicated revenue accounting team focused primarily on significant gross to net revenue adjustments.·Ensure all systems relied upon in the financial reporting process are subject to Information Technology General Controls (ITGCs) which are intended to prevent system changes that could affect the completeness and accuracy of the data used. ·Conduct manual data validation procedures on certain reports related to gross to net adjustments and inventory. Conduct manual data validation procedures on certain reports related to gross to net adjustments and inventory. ·Enhance the design of management review controls to increase the level of precision. Enhance the design of management review controls to increase the level of precision. ·Establish a dedicated revenue accounting team focused primarily on significant gross to net revenue adjustments. Establish a dedicated revenue accounting team focused primarily on significant gross to net revenue adjustments. ·Ensure all systems relied upon in the financial reporting process are subject to Information Technology General Controls (ITGCs) which are intended to prevent system changes that could affect the completeness and accuracy of the data used. Ensure all systems relied upon in the financial reporting process are subject to Information Technology General Controls (ITGCs) which are intended to prevent system changes that could affect the completeness and accuracy of the data used. With respect to timely and accurate filing of our financial results, management intends to: ·Undertake a financial close process improvement project utilizing external consultants to identify efficiencies and enhance reporting capabilities as well as opportunities to reduce the incidence of errors.·Implement more robust accounting policies and work with consultants to streamline close activities and implement best practices.·Enhance communications between the accounting and tax groups to ensure timely and accurate tax considerations.·Deploy additional internal and/or external tax resources to allow for additional levels of management review controls. ·Undertake a financial close process improvement project utilizing external consultants to identify efficiencies and enhance reporting capabilities as well as opportunities to reduce the incidence of errors. Undertake a financial close process improvement project utilizing external consultants to identify efficiencies and enhance reporting capabilities as well as opportunities to reduce the incidence of errors. ·Implement more robust accounting policies and work with consultants to streamline close activities and implement best practices. Implement more robust accounting policies and work with consultants to streamline close activities and implement best practices. ·Enhance communications between the accounting and tax groups to ensure timely and accurate tax considerations. Enhance communications between the accounting and tax groups to ensure timely and accurate tax considerations. ·Deploy additional internal and/or external tax resources to allow for additional levels of management review controls. Deploy additional internal and/or external tax resources to allow for additional levels of management review controls. With respect to the financial statement of acquired subsidiaries, management intends to: ·Evaluate the control environment of target acquisitions and acquired entities in a timely fashion to facilitate improvements in the subsidiary’s control environment within the year of acquisition.·Develop controls specifically designed to identify material errors within subsidiary financial statements.·Drive consistency in internal controls across all Akorn entities.·Deploy appropriate personnel with public company accounting experience at the subsidiary level, as needed. ·Evaluate the control environment of target acquisitions and acquired entities in a timely fashion to facilitate improvements in the subsidiary’s control environment within the year of acquisition. Evaluate the control environment of target acquisitions and acquired entities in a timely fashion to facilitate improvements in the subsidiary’s control environment within the year of acquisition. ·Develop controls specifically designed to identify material errors within subsidiary financial statements. Develop controls specifically designed to identify material errors within subsidiary financial statements. ·Drive consistency in internal controls across all Akorn entities. Drive consistency in internal controls across all Akorn entities. ·Deploy appropriate personnel with public company accounting experience at the subsidiary level, as needed. Deploy appropriate personnel with public company accounting experience at the subsidiary level, as needed. Additionally, we plan on creating a new position to oversee accounting systems, administer and monitor ITGCs, coordinate between the Company’s accounting and information technology departments, identify opportunities to streamline and improve processes through greater automation, and plan to add personnel with internal controls and process improvement capabilities within the accounting function. Responsibilities will include designing internal controls and ensuring compliance, implementing global accounting policies and procedures, and implementing process improvements. The actions that we are taking are subject to ongoing senior management review, as well as audit committee oversight. Although we plan to complete this remediation as quickly as possible, we cannot at this time estimate how long it will take, and our initiatives may not prove to be successful in remediating this material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to further restate our financial results. Our management or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. The existence of internal control material weaknesses may result in current and potential stockholders losing confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, the market price of our common stock, and our ability to retain our current, or obtain new, alliance and collaboration agreements’ partners. In addition, the existence of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may affect our ability to timely file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The inability to timely file periodic reports could result in the SEC revoking the registration of our common stock, which would prohibit us from listing or having our stock quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market or any other stock exchange. This would have an adverse effect on our business and stock price by limiting the publicly available information regarding us and greatly reducing the ability of our stockholders to sell or trade our common stock. Our revenues depend on sale of products manufactured by third parties, which wecannot control. Our revenues depend on sale of products manufactured by third parties, which we We rely in part on external third parties to manufacture certain of the products we sell. Currently, this risk is limited to several of our products. However, we expect this risk to become more significant as we receive approvals for new products to be manufactured through our strategic partnerships and as we seek additional growth opportunities beyond the capacity and capabilities of our current manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers for these products on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to distribute such products as planned. Further, no assurance can be given that the manufacturers we use will be able to provide us with sufficient quantities of our products to meet our needs or that the products supplied to us will meet our specifications. Any delays or difficulties with third-party manufacturers could adversely affect the marketing and distribution of certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of the raw materials and components used in our products come from asingle source. Many of the raw materials and components used in our products come from a We require a supply of quality raw materials and components to manufacture and package pharmaceutical products for ourselves and for third parties with which we have contracted. Many of the raw materials and components used in our products come from a single source and interruptions in the supply of these raw materials and components could disrupt our manufacturing of specific products and cause our sales and profitability to decline. Further, in the case of many of our ANDAs and NDAs, only one supplier of raw materials has been identified. Because FDA approval of drugs requires manufacturers to specify their proposed suppliers of active pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials in their applications, FDA approval of any new supplier would be required if active ingredients or such packaging materials were no longer available from the specified supplier. The qualification of a new supplier could delay our development and marketing efforts. If for any reason we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of any of the raw materials or components required to produce and package our products, we may not be able to manufacture our products as planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17Any failure to comply with the complex reporting and payment obligations under Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs may result in litigation or sanctions.We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, false claims, marketing and pricing laws. We are also subject to Medicaid and other government reporting and payment obligations that are highly complex and somewhat ambiguous. Violations of these laws and reporting obligations are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The recent healthcare reform legislation made several changes to the federal anti-kickback statute, false claims laws, and health care fraud statute such as increasing penalties and making it easier for the government to bring sanctions against pharmaceutical companies. If our past, present or future operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and negatively impact our financial results. Further, if there is a change in laws, regulations or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Any failure to comply with the complex reporting and payment obligations under Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs may result in litigation or sanctions.We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, false claims, marketing and pricing laws. We are also subject to Medicaid and other government reporting and payment obligations that are highly complex and somewhat ambiguous. Violations of these laws and reporting obligations are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The recent healthcare reform legislation made several changes to the federal anti-kickback statute, false claims laws, and health care fraud statute such as increasing penalties and making it easier for the government to bring sanctions against pharmaceutical companies. If our past, present or future operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and negatively impact our financial results. Further, if there is a change in laws, regulations or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Any failure to comply with the complex reporting and payment obligations under Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs may result in litigation or sanctions. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, false claims, marketing and pricing laws. We are also subject to Medicaid and other government reporting and payment obligations that are highly complex and somewhat ambiguous. Violations of these laws and reporting obligations are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The recent healthcare reform legislation made several changes to the federal anti-kickback statute, false claims laws, and health care fraud statute such as increasing penalties and making it easier for the government to bring sanctions against pharmaceutical companies. If our past, present or future operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and negatively impact our financial results. Further, if there is a change in laws, regulations or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Exercise of options, granting of restricted shares, or issuance of shares pursuant to our convertible debt, may have a substantial dilutive effect on ourcommon stock. Exercise of options, granting of restricted shares, or issuance of shares pursuant to our convertible debt, may have a substantial dilutive effect on our If the price per share of our common stock at the time of exercise of any stock options is in excess of the various exercise prices of such options, exercise of such options would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. As of December 31, 2014, holders of our outstanding options would receive 6.4 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $11.44 per share. Our earnings per share will also be diluted if the average closing price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price (currently $8.76 per share) on our convertible Notes. The Notes became convertible for the quarter ending on June 30, 2012 as a result of the Company’s stock trading at or above the required price of $11.39 per share for 20 of the last 30 trading days in the quarter ended March 31, 2012 and have remained convertible for each successive quarter as a result of meeting the trading price requirement at the end of each prior quarter. During the year ended December 31, 2014, approximately $32.5 million of the Notes were converted by the holders while $87.5 million remain available for conversion. If the Notes are surrendered for conversion, we have the option of satisfying all or a portion of our obligation in shares of our common stock, which could result in substantial dilution of the existing ownership interests of our common shareholders. We have grown at a very rapid pace. Our inability to effectively manage or support this growth may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We have grown very rapidly over the past year as a result of several acquisitions and increasing sales, and additional growth through acquisitions is possible in the future. This growth has put significant demands on our processes, systems, and people. We have made and expect to make further investments in additional personnel, systems, and internal control processes to help manage our growth. Attracting, retaining and motivating key employees in various departments and locations to support our growth are critical to our business, and competition for these people can be significant. If we are unable to hire and/or retain qualified employees and/or if we do not effectively invest in systems and processes to manage and support our rapid growth and the challenges and difficulties associated with managing a larger, more complex business, and/or if we cannot effectively manage and integrate our increasingly diverse and global platform, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flow, and the market value of our common stock could decline. Changes in healthcare law and policy changes may adversely affect our business. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “Healthcare Act”). This health care reform legislation is intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. As examples, the current legislation include measures that would (i) significantly increase Medicaid rebates through both the expansion of the program and significant increases in rebates; (ii) substantially expand the Public Health System (340B) program to allow other entities to purchase prescription drugs at substantial discounts; (iii) extend the Medicaid rebate rate to a significant portion of Managed Medicaid enrollees; (iv) assess a 50% rebate on Medicaid Part D spending in the coverage gap for branded and authorized generic prescription drugs; and (v) levy an excise tax on certain drug and device manufacturers. While the aforementioned healthcare reform legislation may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, such insurance mandate did not commence until January 2014, and the healthcare reform legislation also restructured and reduced payments to Medicare managed care plans and reduces reimbursements to many third-party payers. Accordingly, the timing on the insurance mandate, the change in the Medicaid rebate levels, the additional fees imposed on us to the extent we market branded drugs, other compliance obligations, and the reduced reimbursement levels to institutional customers may result in a loss of revenue and could adversely affect our business. While we will not know the full effects of this health care reform legislation until applicable federal and state agencies issue regulations or guidance under the new law and the new law has been fully implemented, it appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and to increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Healthcare Act was enacted. Congress passed the Budget Control Act of 2011 which, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress, including a committee tasked with proposing legislation to reduce the federal deficit. The committee did not act, which triggered the legislation's automatic reduction to government programs. Because of this legislation, Medicare reimbursement to providers was reduced overall by 2% beginning April 1, 2013. This, and other new laws, may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other health care funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and accordingly, our financial operations. The sales of our products depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations including PBMs and other health care-related organizations. We expect both federal and state governments in the U.S. and foreign governments to continue