ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION ANDRESULTS OF OPERATIONSYou should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our financial statements and related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read the “Risk Factors” section of this report for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis.OverviewWe are a biopharmaceutical company focused on acquiring, developing and commercializing innovative anti-cancer agents in the United States, the EU and additional international markets. We target our development programs for the treatment of specific subsets of cancer populations, and simultaneously develop, with partners, for those indications that require them, diagnostic tools intended to direct a compound in development to the population that is most likely to benefit from its use.Our product Rubraca® (rucaparib), an oral small molecule inhibitor of poly ADP-ribose polymerase (“PARP”), is marketed in the United States for two indications specific to recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer. The initial indication received approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) in December 2016 and covers the treatment of adult patients with deleterious BRCA (human genes associated with the repair of damaged DNA) mutation (germline and/or somatic)-associated epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who have been treated with two or more chemotherapies and selected for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for Rubraca. In April 2018, the FDA also approved Rubraca for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in a complete or partial response to platinum-based chemotherapy. The approval in this second, broader and earlier-line indication on a priority review timeline was based on positive data from the phase 3 ARIEL3 clinical trial. Diagnostic testing is not required for patients to be prescribed Rubraca in this maintenance treatment indication. We hold worldwide rights to Rubraca.In May 2018, the European Commission granted a conditional marketing authorization for Rubraca as monotherapy treatment of adult patients with platinum-sensitive, relapsed or progressive, BRCA mutated (germline and/or somatic), high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer, who have been treated with two or more prior lines of platinum-based chemotherapy, and who are unable to tolerate further platinum-based chemotherapy. As this is a conditional approval, it will be necessary to complete certain confirmatory post marketing commitments. In January 2019, the European Commission granted a variation to the marketing authorization to include the maintenance treatment of adult patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in a complete or partial response to platinum-based chemotherapy. With this approval, Rubraca is now authorized in the European Union (“EU”) for certain patients in the recurrent ovarian cancer maintenance setting regardless of their BRCA mutation status. Rubraca was the first PARP inhibitor licensed for an ovarian cancer treatment indication in the EU and is now the first to be authorized for both treatment and maintenance treatment among eligible patients. We are planning our initial launch of Rubraca as maintenance therapy in Germany during the first quarter of 2019, with other EU countries to follow through 2019 and 2020.Additional 2018 Rubraca key regulatory and clinical developments include the following:·During the first quarter of 2018, we initiated an open-label monotherapy study of Rubraca in recurrent, metastatic bladder cancer titled ATLAS: A Study of Rucaparib in Patients with Locally Advanced or Metastatic Bladder Cancer.·In August 2018, the first patient was randomized into our ATHENA Phase 3 study evaluating the combination of Rubraca and OPDIVO® (nivolumab) for the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer in the first line maintenance setting. ATHENA is a Clovis-sponsored study which is part of our ongoing clinical collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb to evaluate its immunotherapy OPDIVO® (nivolumab) in combination with Rubraca in a variety of tumor types. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our financial statements and related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read the “Risk Factors” section of this report for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on acquiring, developing and commercializing innovative anti-cancer agents in the United States, the EU and additional international markets. We target our development programs for the treatment of specific subsets of cancer populations, and simultaneously develop, with partners, for those indications that require them, diagnostic tools intended to direct a compound in development to the population that is most likely to benefit from its use. Our product Rubraca® (rucaparib), an oral small molecule inhibitor of poly ADP-ribose polymerase (“PARP”), is marketed in the United States for two indications specific to recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer. The initial indication received approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) in December 2016 and covers the treatment of adult patients with deleterious BRCA (human genes associated with the repair of damaged DNA) mutation (germline and/or somatic)-associated epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who have been treated with two or more chemotherapies and selected for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for Rubraca. In April 2018, the FDA also approved Rubraca for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in a complete or partial response to platinum-based chemotherapy. The approval in this second, broader and earlier-line indication on a priority review timeline was based on positive data from the phase 3 ARIEL3 clinical trial. Diagnostic testing is not required for patients to be prescribed Rubraca in this maintenance treatment indication. We hold worldwide rights to Rubraca. In May 2018, the European Commission granted a conditional marketing authorization for Rubraca as monotherapy treatment of adult patients with platinum-sensitive, relapsed or progressive, BRCA mutated (germline and/or somatic), high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer, who have been treated with two or more prior lines of platinum-based chemotherapy, and who are unable to tolerate further platinum-based chemotherapy. As this is a conditional approval, it will be necessary to complete certain confirmatory post marketing commitments. In January 2019, the European Commission granted a variation to the marketing authorization to include the maintenance treatment of adult patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in a complete or partial response to platinum-based chemotherapy. With this approval, Rubraca is now authorized in the European Union (“EU”) for certain patients in the recurrent ovarian cancer maintenance setting regardless of their BRCA mutation status. Rubraca was the first PARP inhibitor licensed for an ovarian cancer treatment indication in the EU and is now the first to be authorized for both treatment and maintenance treatment among eligible patients. We are planning our initial launch of Rubraca as maintenance therapy in Germany during the first quarter of 2019, with other EU countries to follow through 2019 and 2020. Additional 2018 Rubraca key regulatory and clinical developments include the following: ·During the first quarter of 2018, we initiated an open-label monotherapy study of Rubraca in recurrent, metastatic bladder cancer titled ATLAS: A Study of Rucaparib in Patients with Locally Advanced or Metastatic Bladder Cancer. During the first quarter of 2018, we initiated an open-label monotherapy study of Rubraca in recurrent, metastatic bladder cancer titled ATLAS: A Study of Rucaparib in Patients with Locally Advanced or Metastatic Bladder Cancer. ·In August 2018, the first patient was randomized into our ATHENA Phase 3 study evaluating the combination of Rubraca and OPDIVO® (nivolumab) for the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer in the first line maintenance setting. ATHENA is a Clovis-sponsored study which is part of our ongoing clinical collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb to evaluate its immunotherapy OPDIVO® (nivolumab) in combination with Rubraca in a variety of tumor types. In August 2018, the first patient was randomized into our ATHENA Phase 3 study evaluating the combination of Rubraca and OPDIVO® (nivolumab) for the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer in the first line maintenance setting. ATHENA is a Clovis-sponsored study which is part of our ongoing clinical collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb to evaluate its immunotherapy OPDIVO® (nivolumab) in combination with Rubraca in a variety of tumor types. ·In October 2018, the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation (“BTD”) for the development of Rubraca as a monotherapy treatment of adult patients with BRCA1/2-mutated metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (“mCRPC”) who have received at least one prior androgen receptor (“AR”)-directed therapy and taxane-based chemotherapy. BTD was granted based on initial efficacy and safety results from the ongoing TRITON2 phase 2 study of Rubraca in patients with advanced mCRPC with BRCA 1/2 mutations (germline or somatic) and deleterious mutations of other homologous recombination (“HR”) repair genes presented at ESMO.·In October 2018, we announced initial data from the ongoing TRITON studies of Rubraca in advanced prostate cancer at the European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) 2018 Congress. The initial TRITON2 data showed a 44 percent confirmed objective response (ORR) by investigator-assessment in 25 RECIST/PCWG3 (RECIST as modified by the Prostate Cancer Working Group for mCRPC trials) response-evaluable patients with a BRCA1/2 alteration, and results by independent assessment were consistent. The median duration of response in these patients had not yet been reached. In addition, a 51 percent confirmed prostate specific antigen (PSA) response rate was observed in 45 PSA response-evaluable patients with a BRCA1/2 alteration. Preliminary safety data for Rubraca in men with mCRPC were consistent with those observed in patients with ovarian cancer and other solid tumors.We also have a robust clinical development program underway to further evaluate Rubraca in a variety of other solid tumor types, either as monotherapy or in combination with other agents, including several studies as part of our ongoing clinical collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company to evaluate its immunotherapy OPDIVO® (nivolumab) in combination with Rubraca.In addition, we have one other product candidate.Lucitanib is an oral, potent inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase activity of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1 through 3 (“VEGFR1-3”), platelet-derived growth factor receptors alpha and beta (“PDGFR α/β”) and fibroblast growth factor receptors 1 through 3 (“FGFR1-3”). We believe that recent data for a drug similar to lucitanib that inhibits these same pathways – when combined with a PD-1 inhibitor – provide support for development of lucitanib in combination with a PD-1 inhibitor and a Clovis-sponsored study of lucitanib in combination with nivolumab is planned in gynecologic cancers. In addition, we intend to initiate a study of lucitanib in combination with Rubraca in ovarian cancer, based on encouraging data of VEGF and PARP inhibitors in combination. We intend to initiate each of these Phase 1b/2 combination studies during the first half of 2019.Lucitanib was previously partnered with Servier outside the U.S. and Japan (also excluding China); Servier returned its rights to lucitanib in late 2018. We now hold the global development and commercialization rights (except for China) for lucitanib.In early 2019, we provided notice to Celgene Corporation exercising the right to terminate our license to rociletinib, an oral mutant-selective inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor (“EGFR”). That termination will become effective in the second quarter of 2019.We commenced operations in April 2009. To date, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to identifying and in-licensing product candidates, performing development activities with respect to those product candidates and the general and administrative support of these operations. For the year ended December 31, 2018, have generated $95.4 million product revenue related to sales of Rubraca, which we began to commercialize on December 19, 2016. We have principally funded our operations using the net proceeds from the sale of convertible preferred stock, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, public offerings of our common stock and our convertible senior notes offering.We have never been profitable and, as of December 31, 2018, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,843.1 million. We incurred net losses of $368.0 million, $346.4 million and $349.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and had cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities totaling $520.1 million at December 31, 2018.We expect to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, as we incur costs related to commercial activities associated with Rubraca. In April 2018, we sold 1,837,898 shares of our common stock in a public offering at $54.41 per share. The net proceeds from the offering were $93.9 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. Concurrently, we completed the public offering of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.25% convertible senior notes due 2025. The net proceeds from this offering were $290.9 million, after deducting ·In October 2018, the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation (“BTD”) for the development of Rubraca as a monotherapy treatment of adult patients with BRCA1/2-mutated metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (“mCRPC”) who have received at least one prior androgen receptor (“AR”)-directed therapy and taxane-based chemotherapy. BTD was granted based on initial efficacy and safety results from the ongoing TRITON2 phase 2 study of Rubraca in patients with advanced mCRPC with BRCA 1/2 mutations (germline or somatic) and deleterious mutations of other homologous recombination (“HR”) repair genes presented at ESMO. In October 2018, the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation (“BTD”) for the development of Rubraca as a monotherapy treatment of adult patients with BRCA1/2-mutated metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (“mCRPC”) who have received at least one prior androgen receptor (“AR”)-directed therapy and taxane-based chemotherapy. BTD was granted based on initial efficacy and safety results from the ongoing TRITON2 phase 2 study of Rubraca in patients with advanced mCRPC with BRCA 1/2 mutations (germline or somatic) and deleterious mutations of other homologous recombination (“HR”) repair genes presented at ESMO. ·In October 2018, we announced initial data from the ongoing TRITON studies of Rubraca in advanced prostate cancer at the European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) 2018 Congress. The initial TRITON2 data showed a 44 percent confirmed objective response (ORR) by investigator-assessment in 25 RECIST/PCWG3 (RECIST as modified by the Prostate Cancer Working Group for mCRPC trials) response-evaluable patients with a BRCA1/2 alteration, and results by independent assessment were consistent. The median duration of response in these patients had not yet been reached. In addition, a 51 percent confirmed prostate specific antigen (PSA) response rate was observed in 45 PSA response-evaluable patients with a BRCA1/2 alteration. Preliminary safety data for Rubraca in men with mCRPC were consistent with those observed in patients with ovarian cancer and other solid tumors. In October 2018, we announced initial data from the ongoing TRITON studies of Rubraca in advanced prostate cancer at the European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) 2018 Congress. The initial TRITON2 data showed a 44 percent confirmed objective response (ORR) by investigator-assessment in 25 RECIST/PCWG3 (RECIST as modified by the Prostate Cancer Working Group for mCRPC trials) response-evaluable patients with a BRCA1/2 alteration, and results by independent assessment were consistent. The median duration of response in these patients had not yet been reached. In addition, a 51 percent confirmed prostate specific antigen (PSA) response rate was observed in 45 PSA response-evaluable patients with a BRCA1/2 alteration. Preliminary safety data for Rubraca in men with mCRPC were consistent with those observed in patients with ovarian cancer and other solid tumors. We also have a robust clinical development program underway to further evaluate Rubraca in a variety of other solid tumor types, either as monotherapy or in combination with other agents, including several studies as part of our ongoing clinical collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company to evaluate its immunotherapy OPDIVO® (nivolumab) in combination with Rubraca. In addition, we have one other product candidate. Lucitanib is an oral, potent inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase activity of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1 through 3 (“VEGFR1-3”), platelet-derived growth factor receptors alpha and beta (“PDGFR α/β”) and fibroblast growth factor receptors 1 through 3 (“FGFR1-3”). We believe that recent data for a drug similar to lucitanib that inhibits these same pathways – when combined with a PD-1 inhibitor – provide support for development of lucitanib in combination with a PD-1 inhibitor and a Clovis-sponsored study of lucitanib in combination with nivolumab is planned in gynecologic cancers. In addition, we intend to initiate a study of lucitanib in combination with Rubraca in ovarian cancer, based on encouraging data of VEGF and PARP inhibitors in combination. We intend to initiate each of these Phase 1b/2 combination studies during the first half of 2019. Lucitanib was previously partnered with Servier outside the U.S. and Japan (also excluding China); Servier returned its rights to lucitanib in late 2018. We now hold the global development and commercialization rights (except for China) for lucitanib. In early 2019, we provided notice to Celgene Corporation exercising the right to terminate our license to rociletinib, an oral mutant-selective inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor (“EGFR”). That termination will become effective in the second quarter of 2019. We commenced operations in April 2009. To date, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to identifying and in-licensing product candidates, performing development activities with respect to those product candidates and the general and administrative support of these operations. For the year ended December 31, 2018, have generated $95.4 million product revenue related to sales of Rubraca, which we began to commercialize on December 19, 2016. We have principally funded our operations using the net proceeds from the sale of convertible preferred stock, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, public offerings of our common stock and our convertible senior notes offering. We have never been profitable and, as of December 31, 2018, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,843.1 million. We incurred net losses of $368.0 million, $346.4 million and $349.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and had cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities totaling $520.1 million at December 31, 2018. We expect to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, as we incur costs related to commercial activities associated with Rubraca. In April 2018, we sold 1,837,898 shares of our common stock in a public offering at $54.41 per share. The net proceeds from the offering were $93.9 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. Concurrently, we completed the public offering of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.25% convertible senior notes due 2025. The net proceeds from this offering were $290.9 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. Based on our current estimates, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities will allow us to fund activities through at least the next 12 months. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue from Rubraca, we expect to finance our operations in part through additional public or private equity or debt offerings and may seek additional capital through arrangements with strategic partners or from other sources. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability, and we may never do so.Product License AgreementsFor a discussion of our product license agreements, see Note 13,License Agreements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Financial Operations OverviewRevenueDuring 2018, we recorded $95.4 million in revenue related to sales of Rubraca, which we began to commercialize on December 19, 2016. For further discussion of our revenue recognition policy, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates” below. Our ability to generate revenue and become profitable depends upon our ability to successfully commercialize products. Any inability on our part to successfully commercialize Rubraca in the United States, the EU and any foreign territories where it may be approved, or any significant delay in such approvals, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to execute upon our business strategy and, ultimately, to generate sufficient revenues from Rubraca to reach or maintain profitability or sustain our anticipated levels of operations.We supply commercially labeled Rubraca free of charge to eligible patients who qualify due to financial need through our patient assistance program and the majority of these patients are on Medicare. This product is distributed through a separate vendor who administers the program on our behalf. It is not distributed through our specialty distributor and specialty pharmacy network. This product is neither included in the transaction price nor the variable considerations to arrive at product revenue. Manufacturing costs associated with this free product is included in selling, general and administrative expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the supply of this free drug was approximately 26% of the overall commercial supply or the equivalent of $33.4 million in commercial value.Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”), Topic 606, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. Upon adoption, we recognized revenue when our customers, the specialty distributors and specialty pharmacy providers, take control of our product. This resulted in us recognizing revenue approximately two to four weeks earlier than before adopting the new standard. We used the modified retrospective method to adopt the new standard. This means that we did not restate previously issued financial statements, but recorded a one-time adjustment to retained earnings of $2.4 million. This adjustment represents the sales of our product to our customers prior to January 1, 2018, that had not been sold to patients or healthcare providers, offset by related gross-to-net adjustments and other direct costs, including royalties and sales incentive compensation.During 2017, revenue was recognized for U.S. tax purposes when our product was sold to the specialty distributors and pharmacies, a method that differs from book treatment. This difference in revenue recognition resulted in the establishment of the deferred tax asset for the sales value of our product held by our specialty distributor and pharmacy providers at December 31, 2017. The deferred tax asset was offset by a full valuation allowance and has no impact to our statement of operations. With the adoption of ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018, revenue is recognized when our product is sold to the specialty distributors pharmacies, which will match the tax treatment resulting in no deferred tax asset.For a complete discussion of this adoption and the accounting for product revenue, see Note 2,Summary of Significant Accounting Policiesin the “Recently Issued Accounting Standards”section and Note 3,Revenue Recognition. underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. Based on our current estimates, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities will allow us to fund activities through at least the next 12 months. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue from Rubraca, we expect to finance our operations in part through additional public or private equity or debt offerings and may seek additional capital through arrangements with strategic partners or from other sources. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability, and we may never do so. For a discussion of our product license agreements, see Note 13,License Agreements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a discussion of our product license agreements, see Note 13, , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. During 2018, we recorded $95.4 million in revenue related to sales of Rubraca, which we began to commercialize on December 19, 2016. For further discussion of our revenue recognition policy, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates” below. Our ability to generate revenue and become profitable depends upon our ability to successfully commercialize products. Any inability on our part to successfully commercialize Rubraca in the United States, the EU and any foreign territories where it may be approved, or any significant delay in such approvals, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to execute upon our business strategy and, ultimately, to generate sufficient revenues from Rubraca to reach or maintain profitability or sustain our anticipated levels of operations. We supply commercially labeled Rubraca free of charge to eligible patients who qualify due to financial need through our patient assistance program and the majority of these patients are on Medicare. This product is distributed through a separate vendor who administers the program on our behalf. It is not distributed through our specialty distributor and specialty pharmacy network. This product is neither included in the transaction price nor the variable considerations to arrive at product revenue. Manufacturing costs associated with this free product is included in selling, general and administrative expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the supply of this free drug was approximately 26% of the overall commercial supply or the equivalent of $33.4 million in commercial value. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”), Topic 606, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. Upon adoption, we recognized revenue when our customers, the specialty distributors and specialty pharmacy providers, take control of our product. This resulted in us recognizing revenue approximately two to four weeks earlier than before adopting the new standard. We used the modified retrospective method to adopt the new standard. This means that we did not restate previously issued financial statements, but recorded a one-time adjustment to retained earnings of $2.4 million. This adjustment represents the sales of our product to our customers prior to January 1, 2018, that had not been sold to patients or healthcare providers, offset by related gross-to-net adjustments and other direct costs, including royalties and sales incentive compensation. During 2017, revenue was recognized for U.S. tax purposes when our product was sold to the specialty distributors and pharmacies, a method that differs from book treatment. This difference in revenue recognition resulted in the establishment of the deferred tax asset for the sales value of our product held by our specialty distributor and pharmacy providers at December 31, 2017. The deferred tax asset was offset by a full valuation allowance and has no impact to our statement of operations. With the adoption of ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018, revenue is recognized when our product is sold to the specialty distributors pharmacies, which will match the tax treatment resulting in no deferred tax asset. For a complete discussion of this adoption and the accounting for product revenue, see Note 2,Summary of Significant Accounting Policiesin the “Recently Issued Accounting Standards”section and Note 3,Revenue Recognition. For a complete discussion of this adoption and the accounting for product revenue, see Note 2, Research and Development ExpensesResearch and development expenses consist of costs incurred for the development of our product candidates and companion diagnostics, which include:·license fees and milestone payments related to the acquisition of in-licensed products, which are reported on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss as acquired in-process research and development;·employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation expense;·expenses incurred under agreements with CROs and investigative sites that conduct our clinical trials;·the cost of acquiring, developing and manufacturing clinical trial materials;·costs associated with non-clinical activities and regulatory operations;·market research, disease education and other commercial product planning activities, including the hiring of a U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organization in preparation for commercial launch of rucaparib; and·activities associated with the development of companion diagnostics for our product candidates.Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. License fees and milestone payments related to in-licensed products and technology are expensed if it is determined that they have no alternative future use. Costs for certain development activities, such as clinical trials and manufacturing of clinical supply, are recognized based on an evaluation of the progress to completion of specific tasks using data such as patient enrollment, clinical site activations or information provided to us by our vendors. Our research and development expenses increased for 2018 and will continue to increase in 2019 as our ongoing rucaparib studies progress.The following table identifies research and development and acquired in-process research and development costs on a program-specific basis for our products under development. Personnel-related costs, depreciation and share-based compensation are not allocated to specific programs, as they are deployed across multiple projects under development and, as such, are separately classified as personnel and other expenses in the table below.Year Ended December 31,201820172016(in thousands)Rucaparib ExpensesResearch and development$153,083$72,901$101,598Acquired in-process research and development——1,300Rucaparib Total153,08372,901102,898Lucitanib ExpensesResearch and development (a)786(1,187)(1,337)Lucitanib Total786(1,187)(1,337)Rociletinib ExpensesResearch and development2,3917,71243,768Rociletinib Total2,3917,71243,768Personnel and other expenses75,08763,072107,100Total$231,347$142,498$252,429(a)This amount reflects actual costs incurred less amounts due from Servier for reimbursable development expenses pursuant to the collaboration and license agreement described in Note 13,License Agreements,to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.For 2018, research and development expenses increased due to higher research and development costs for rucaparib. For 2017, research and development expenses decreased primarily due to decreased development activities for the rociletinib program.Selling, General and Administrative ExpensesSelling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of salaries and related costs for personnel in executive, commercial, finance, legal, investor relations, human resources and information technology functions. Other Research and development expenses consist of costs incurred for the development of our product candidates and companion diagnostics, which include: ·license fees and milestone payments related to the acquisition of in-licensed products, which are reported on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss as acquired in-process research and development; license fees and milestone payments related to the acquisition of in-licensed products, which are reported on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss as acquired in-process research and development; ·employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation expense; employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation expense; ·expenses incurred under agreements with CROs and investigative sites that conduct our clinical trials; expenses incurred under agreements with CROs and investigative sites that conduct our clinical trials; ·the cost of acquiring, developing and manufacturing clinical trial materials; the cost of acquiring, developing and manufacturing clinical trial materials; ·costs associated with non-clinical activities and regulatory operations; costs associated with non-clinical activities and regulatory operations; ·market research, disease education and other commercial product planning activities, including the hiring of a U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organization in preparation for commercial launch of rucaparib; and market research, disease education and other commercial product planning activities, including the hiring of a U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organization in preparation for commercial launch of rucaparib; and ·activities associated with the development of companion diagnostics for our product candidates. activities associated with the development of companion diagnostics for our product candidates. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. License fees and milestone payments related to in-licensed products and technology are expensed if it is determined that they have no alternative future use. Costs for certain development activities, such as clinical trials and manufacturing of clinical supply, are recognized based on an evaluation of the progress to completion of specific tasks using data such as patient enrollment, clinical site activations or information provided to us by our vendors. Our research and development expenses increased for 2018 and will continue to increase in 2019 as our ongoing rucaparib studies progress. The following table identifies research and development and acquired in-process research and development costs on a program-specific basis for our products under development. Personnel-related costs, depreciation and share-based compensation are not allocated to specific programs, as they are deployed across multiple projects under development and, as such, are separately classified as personnel and other expenses in the table below. Year Ended December 31,201820172016(in thousands)Rucaparib ExpensesResearch and development$153,083$72,901$101,598Acquired in-process research and development——1,300Rucaparib Total153,08372,901102,898Lucitanib ExpensesResearch and development (a)786(1,187)(1,337)Lucitanib Total786(1,187)(1,337)Rociletinib ExpensesResearch and development2,3917,71243,768Rociletinib Total2,3917,71243,768Personnel and other expenses75,08763,072107,100Total$231,347$142,498$252,429 (a)This amount reflects actual costs incurred less amounts due from Servier for reimbursable development expenses pursuant to the collaboration and license agreement described in Note 13,License Agreements,to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (a)This amount reflects actual costs incurred less amounts due from Servier for reimbursable development expenses pursuant to the collaboration and license agreement described in Note 13, to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For 2018, research and development expenses increased due to higher research and development costs for rucaparib. For 2017, research and development expenses decreased primarily due to decreased development activities for the rociletinib program. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of salaries and related costs for personnel in executive, commercial, finance, legal, investor relations, human resources and information technology functions. Other general and administrative expenses include facilities expenses, communication expenses, information technology costs, corporate insurance and professional fees for legal, consulting and accounting services. With the FDA approval of Rubraca on December 19, 2016, all sales and marketing expenses associated with Rubraca are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. We anticipate that our selling, general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in the future in support of our commercial activities related to Rubraca in the U.S. and the EU.Acquired In-Process Research and Development ExpensesAcquired in-process research and development expenses consist of upfront payments to acquire a new drug compound, as well as subsequent milestone payments. Acquired in-process research and development payments are immediately expensed provided that the drug has not achieved regulatory approval for marketing and, absent obtaining such approval, has no alternative future use. Once regulatory approval is received, payments to acquire rights, and the related milestone payments, are capitalized and the amortization of such assets recorded to product cost of sales.Impairment of Intangible AssetIn connection with the acquisition of EOS in November 2013, we recorded intangible assets to reflect the fair value of acquired in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) as of the acquisition date. The fair value was established based upon discounted cash flow models using assumptions related to the timing of development, probability of development and regulatory success, sales and commercialization factors and estimated product life. During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $104.5 million impairment charge due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. At December 31, 2018, the IPR&D intangible asset recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was zero.Other Income and ExpenseOther income and expense are primarily comprised of foreign currency gains and losses resulting from transactions with CROs, investigational sites and contract manufacturers where payments are made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Other expense also includes interest expense recognized related to our convertible senior notes.Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and EstimatesOur discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, expenses and revenue and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue, intangible asset impairment, clinical trial accruals and share-based compensation expense. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.Our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe the following accounting policies to be most critical to the judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements.Revenue RecognitionWe are currently approved to sell Rubraca in the United States and the EU markets. We distribute our product principally through a limited number of specialty distributor and specialty pharmacy providers, collectively, our customers. Our customers subsequently sell our products to patients and health care providers. Separately, we have arrangements with certain payors and other third parties that provide for government-mandated and privately-negotiated rebates, chargebacks and discounts.Revenue from product sales are recognized when the performance obligation is satisfied, which is when customers obtain control of our product at a point in time, typically upon delivery. Revenues from product sales are recorded at the net sales price (transaction price), which includes estimates of variable consideration for which reserves are established general and administrative expenses include facilities expenses, communication expenses, information technology costs, corporate insurance and professional fees for legal, consulting and accounting services. With the FDA approval of Rubraca on December 19, 2016, all sales and marketing expenses associated with Rubraca are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. We anticipate that our selling, general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in the future in support of our commercial activities related to Rubraca in the U.S. and the EU. Acquired in-process research and development expenses consist of upfront payments to acquire a new drug compound, as well as subsequent milestone payments. Acquired in-process research and development payments are immediately expensed provided that the drug has not achieved regulatory approval for marketing and, absent obtaining such approval, has no alternative future use. Once regulatory approval is received, payments to acquire rights, and the related milestone payments, are capitalized and the amortization of such assets recorded to product cost of sales. In connection with the acquisition of EOS in November 2013, we recorded intangible assets to reflect the fair value of acquired in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) as of the acquisition date. The fair value was established based upon discounted cash flow models using assumptions related to the timing of development, probability of development and regulatory success, sales and commercialization factors and estimated product life. During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $104.5 million impairment charge due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. At December 31, 2018, the IPR&D intangible asset recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was zero. Other income and expense are primarily comprised of foreign currency gains and losses resulting from transactions with CROs, investigational sites and contract manufacturers where payments are made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Other expense also includes interest expense recognized related to our convertible senior notes. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, expenses and revenue and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue, intangible asset impairment, clinical trial accruals and share-based compensation expense. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe the following accounting policies to be most critical to the judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. We are currently approved to sell Rubraca in the United States and the EU markets. We distribute our product principally through a limited number of specialty distributor and specialty pharmacy providers, collectively, our customers. Our customers subsequently sell our products to patients and health care providers. Separately, we have arrangements with certain payors and other third parties that provide for government-mandated and privately-negotiated rebates, chargebacks and discounts. Revenue from product sales are recognized when the performance obligation is satisfied, which is when customers obtain control of our product at a point in time, typically upon delivery. Revenues from product sales are recorded at the net sales price (transaction price), which includes estimates of variable consideration for which reserves are established and which result from price concessions that include rebates, chargebacks, discounts, co-pay assistance, estimated product returns and other allowances that are offered within contracts between us and our customers, health care providers, payors and other indirect customers relating to the sales of our product. These reserves are based on the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales and are classified as reductions of accounts receivable (if the amount is payable to the customers) or a current liability (if the amount is payable to a party other than a customer). Where appropriate, these estimates take into consideration a range of possible outcomes which are probability-weighted for relevant factors such as our historical experience, current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, industry data and forecasted customer buying and payment patterns. Overall, these reserves reflect our best estimates of the amount of consideration to which we are entitled based on the terms of the contract. The amount of variable consideration which is included in the transaction price may be constrained and is included in the net sales price only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of the cumulative revenue recognized will not occur in a future period. Actual amounts of consideration ultimately received may differ from our estimates. If actual results in the future vary from our estimates, we adjust these estimates, which would affect product revenue and earnings in the period such variances become known.For the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized $95.4 million of product revenue.Accrued Research and Development ExpensesAs part of the process of preparing our financial statements, we are required to estimate our accrued expenses. This process involves reviewing open contracts and purchase orders, communicating with our personnel to identify services that have been performed on our behalf and estimating the level of service performed and the associated cost incurred for the service when we have not yet been invoiced or otherwise notified of the actual cost. The majority of our service providers invoice us monthly in arrears for services performed or when contractual milestones are met. We make estimates of our accrued expenses as of each balance sheet date in our financial statements based on facts and circumstances known to us at that time. We periodically confirm the accuracy of our estimates with the service providers and make adjustments if necessary. Examples of estimated accrued research and development expenses include:·fees paid to CROs in connection with clinical studies;·fees paid to investigative sites in connection with clinical studies;·fees paid to vendors in connection with non-clinical development activities;·fees paid to vendors associated with the development of companion diagnostics; and·fees paid to vendors related to product manufacturing, development and distribution of clinical supplies.We base our expenses related to clinical studies on our estimates of the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with multiple CROs that conduct and manage clinical studies on our behalf. The financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation, vary from contract to contract and may result in uneven payment flows. There may be instances in which payments made to our vendors will exceed the level of services provided and result in a prepayment of the clinical expense. Payments under some of these contracts depend on factors such as the successful enrollment of patients and the completion of clinical trial milestones. In accruing service fees, we estimate the time period over which services will be performed, enrollment of patients, number of sites activated and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from our estimate, we adjust the accrual or prepaid accordingly. Although we do not expect our estimates to be materially different from amounts actually incurred, our understanding of the status and timing of services performed relative to the actual status and timing of services performed may vary and may result in us reporting amounts that are too high or too low in any particular period.Share-Based CompensationDetermining the amount of share-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates of the fair value of stock options as of their grant date. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period of the award. Calculating the fair value of share-based awards requires that we make highly subjective assumptions. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to value our stock option awards. Use of this valuation methodology requires that we make assumptions as to the expected dividend yield, price volatility of our common stock, the risk-free interest rate for a period that approximates the expected term of our stock options and the expected term of our stock options. We utilize a dividend yield of zero based on the fact that we have never paid cash dividends and have no current intention to pay cash dividends. and which result from price concessions that include rebates, chargebacks, discounts, co-pay assistance, estimated product returns and other allowances that are offered within contracts between us and our customers, health care providers, payors and other indirect customers relating to the sales of our product. These reserves are based on the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales and are classified as reductions of accounts receivable (if the amount is payable to the customers) or a current liability (if the amount is payable to a party other than a customer). Where appropriate, these estimates take into consideration a range of possible outcomes which are probability-weighted for relevant factors such as our historical experience, current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, industry data and forecasted customer buying and payment patterns. Overall, these reserves reflect our best estimates of the amount of consideration to which we are entitled based on the terms of the contract. The amount of variable consideration which is included in the transaction price may be constrained and is included in the net sales price only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of the cumulative revenue recognized will not occur in a future period. Actual amounts of consideration ultimately received may differ from our estimates. If actual results in the future vary from our estimates, we adjust these estimates, which would affect product revenue and earnings in the period such variances become known. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized $95.4 million of product revenue. As part of the process of preparing our financial statements, we are required to estimate our accrued expenses. This process involves reviewing open contracts and purchase orders, communicating with our personnel to identify services that have been performed on our behalf and estimating the level of service performed and the associated cost incurred for the service when we have not yet been invoiced or otherwise notified of the actual cost. The majority of our service providers invoice us monthly in arrears for services performed or when contractual milestones are met. We make estimates of our accrued expenses as of each balance sheet date in our financial statements based on facts and circumstances known to us at that time. We periodically confirm the accuracy of our estimates with the service providers and make adjustments if necessary. Examples of estimated accrued research and development expenses include: ·fees paid to CROs in connection with clinical studies; fees paid to CROs in connection with clinical studies; ·fees paid to investigative sites in connection with clinical studies; fees paid to investigative sites in connection with clinical studies; ·fees paid to vendors in connection with non-clinical development activities; fees paid to vendors in connection with non-clinical development activities; ·fees paid to vendors associated with the development of companion diagnostics; and fees paid to vendors associated with the development of companion diagnostics; and ·fees paid to vendors related to product manufacturing, development and distribution of clinical supplies. fees paid to vendors related to product manufacturing, development and distribution of clinical supplies. We base our expenses related to clinical studies on our estimates of the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with multiple CROs that conduct and manage clinical studies on our behalf. The financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation, vary from contract to contract and may result in uneven payment flows. There may be instances in which payments made to our vendors will exceed the level of services provided and result in a prepayment of the clinical expense. Payments under some of these contracts depend on factors such as the successful enrollment of patients and the completion of clinical trial milestones. In accruing service fees, we estimate the time period over which services will be performed, enrollment of patients, number of sites activated and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from our estimate, we adjust the accrual or prepaid accordingly. Although we do not expect our estimates to be materially different from amounts actually incurred, our understanding of the status and timing of services performed relative to the actual status and timing of services performed may vary and may result in us reporting amounts that are too high or too low in any particular period. Determining the amount of share-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates of the fair value of stock options as of their grant date. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period of the award. Calculating the fair value of share-based awards requires that we make highly subjective assumptions. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to value our stock option awards. Use of this valuation methodology requires that we make assumptions as to the expected dividend yield, price volatility of our common stock, the risk-free interest rate for a period that approximates the expected term of our stock options and the expected term of our stock options. We utilize a dividend yield of zero based on the fact that we have never paid cash dividends and have no current intention to pay cash dividends. The fair value of stock options for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 was estimated at the grant date using the following weighted average assumptions for the respective periods:Year Ended December 31,201820172016Dividend yield———Volatility (a)88%89%93%Risk-free interest rate (b)2.92%2.16%1.77%Expected term (years) (c)5.95.85.8(a)Volatility: The expected volatility was estimated using our historical data.(b)Risk-free interest rate: The rate is based on the yield on the grant date of a zero-coupon U.S. Treasury bond whose maturity period approximates the option’s expected term.(c)Expected term: The expected term of the award was estimated using our historical data.We recognized share-based compensation expense of approximately $49.1 million, $44.7 million and $39.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, the unrecognized share-based compensation expense related to unvested options, adjusted for expected forfeitures, was $55.8 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average remaining vesting period of 2.3 years. As of December 31, 2018, the unrecognized share-based compensation expense related to RSUs, adjusted for expected forfeitures, was $29.4 million, which is expected to be recognized over an estimated weighted-average remaining vesting period of 2.8 years. We expect our share-based compensation to continue to grow in future periods due to the potential increases in the value of our common stock and headcount.We estimate the level of forfeitures expected to occur and record compensation expense only for those awards that we ultimately expect will vest.InventoryInventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value, on a first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) basis. Inventories include active pharmaceutical ingredient (“API”), contract manufacturing costs and overhead allocations. We began capitalizing incurred inventory related costs upon the regulatory approval of Rubraca. Prior to the regulatory approval of Rubraca, we incurred costs for the manufacture of the drug that could potentially be available to support the commercial launch of Rubraca and all such costs were recognized as research and development expense.We regularly analyze our inventory levels for excess quantities and obsolescence (expiration), taking into account factors such as historical and anticipated future sales compared to quantities on hand and the remaining shelf-life of Rubraca. Rubraca finished goods have a shelf-life of four years from the date of manufacture. We expect to sell the finished goods prior to expiration. The API currently has a shelf-life of four years from the date of manufacture but can be retested at an immaterial cost with no expected reduction in potency, thereby extending its shelf-life as needed. We expect to consume substantially all of the API over a period of approximately eight years based on our long-range sales projections of Rubraca.We write down inventory that has become obsolete, inventory that has a cost basis in excess of its estimated realizable value and/or inventory in excess of expected sales requirements. Expired inventory would be disposed of and the related costs would be written off as cost of product revenue. Inventories that are not expected to be consumed within 12 months following the balance sheet date are classified as long-term inventories. Long-term inventories primarily consist of API.API is currently produced by a single supplier. As the API has undergone significant manufacturing specific to its intended purpose at the point it is purchased by us, we classify the API as work-in-process inventory. In addition, we currently manufacture Rubraca finished goods with a single third-party manufacturer. The disruption or termination of the supply of API or the disruption or termination of the manufacturing of our commercial products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.Inventory used in clinical trials is expensed as research and development expense when it has been identified for such use. The fair value of stock options for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 was estimated at the grant date using the following weighted average assumptions for the respective periods: (a)Volatility: The expected volatility was estimated using our historical data. : The expected volatility was estimated using our historical data. (b)Risk-free interest rate: The rate is based on the yield on the grant date of a zero-coupon U.S. Treasury bond whose maturity period approximates the option’s expected term. : The rate is based on the yield on the grant date of a zero-coupon U.S. Treasury bond whose maturity period approximates the option’s expected term. (c)Expected term: The expected term of the award was estimated using our historical data. : The expected term of the award was estimated using our historical data. We recognized share-based compensation expense of approximately $49.1 million, $44.7 million and $39.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, the unrecognized share-based compensation expense related to unvested options, adjusted for expected forfeitures, was $55.8 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average remaining vesting period of 2.3 years. As of December 31, 2018, the unrecognized share-based compensation expense related to RSUs, adjusted for expected forfeitures, was $29.4 million, which is expected to be recognized over an estimated weighted-average remaining vesting period of 2.8 years. We expect our share-based compensation to continue to grow in future periods due to the potential increases in the value of our common stock and headcount. We estimate the level of forfeitures expected to occur and record compensation expense only for those awards that we ultimately expect will vest. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value, on a first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) basis. Inventories include active pharmaceutical ingredient (“API”), contract manufacturing costs and overhead allocations. We began capitalizing incurred inventory related costs upon the regulatory approval of Rubraca. Prior to the regulatory approval of Rubraca, we incurred costs for the manufacture of the drug that could potentially be available to support the commercial launch of Rubraca and all such costs were recognized as research and development expense. We regularly analyze our inventory levels for excess quantities and obsolescence (expiration), taking into account factors such as historical and anticipated future sales compared to quantities on hand and the remaining shelf-life of Rubraca. Rubraca finished goods have a shelf-life of four years from the date of manufacture. We expect to sell the finished goods prior to expiration. The API currently has a shelf-life of four years from the date of manufacture but can be retested at an immaterial cost with no expected reduction in potency, thereby extending its shelf-life as needed. We expect to consume substantially all of the API over a period of approximately eight years based on our long-range sales projections of Rubraca. We write down inventory that has become obsolete, inventory that has a cost basis in excess of its estimated realizable value and/or inventory in excess of expected sales requirements. Expired inventory would be disposed of and the related costs would be written off as cost of product revenue. Inventories that are not expected to be consumed within 12 months following the balance sheet date are classified as long-term inventories. Long-term inventories primarily consist of API. API is currently produced by a single supplier. As the API has undergone significant manufacturing specific to its intended purpose at the point it is purchased by us, we classify the API as work-in-process inventory. In addition, we currently manufacture Rubraca finished goods with a single third-party manufacturer. The disruption or termination of the supply of API or the disruption or termination of the manufacturing of our commercial products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Inventory used in clinical trials is expensed as research and development expense when it has been identified for such use. At December 31, 2018, we had $27.1 million of current inventory and $113.9 million of long-term inventory. In addition, we had $12.4 million cash deposit on inventory, which consists of API that we expect to be converted to finished goods beyond the next twelve months.Intangible AssetsDefinite-lived intangible assets related to capitalized milestones under license agreements are amortized on a straight-line basis over their remaining useful lives, which are estimated to be the remaining patent life. If our estimate of the product’s useful life is shorter than the remaining patent life, then a shorter period is used. Amortization expense is recorded as a component of cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss.Intangible assets are evaluated for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently if impairment indicators exist. Events that could result in an impairment, or trigger an interim impairment assessment, include the decision to discontinue the development of a drug, the receipt of additional clinical or nonclinical data regarding our drug candidate or a potentially competitive drug candidate, changes in the clinical development program