ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION ANDRESULTS OF OPERATIONSYou should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our financial statements and related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read the “Risk Factors” section of this report for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis.OverviewWe are a biopharmaceutical company focused on acquiring, developing and commercializing innovative anti-cancer agents in the United States, Europe and additional international markets. We target our development programs for the treatment of specific subsets of cancer populations, and simultaneously develop, with partners, diagnostic tools intended to direct a compound in development to the population that is most likely to benefit from its use.Our marketed product Rubraca® (rucaparib) is approved on an accelerated basis in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with deleterious BRCA (human genes associated with the repair of damaged DNA) mutation (germline and/or somatic) associated advanced ovarian cancer who have been treated with two or more chemotherapies, and selected for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for Rubraca. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. We launched Rubraca in the United States in December 2016 for this indication.The FDA is currently reviewing on a priority review timeline our sNDA for Rubraca as maintenance treatment of adult patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in a complete or partial response to platinum-based chemotherapy.Our MAA submitted to the EMA for an ovarian cancer treatment indication for Rubraca is currently under review by the EMA’s CHMP. Following a Scientific Advisory Group - Oncology meeting and an oral explanation by us before the CHMP in February 2018, the CHMP has communicated a positive trend vote for the MAA and their intention to hold a final vote on the treatment indication at their March 2018 meeting.In addition, we have two other product candidates: lucitanib, an oral inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase activity of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (“VEGFR”) 1-3, platelet-derived growth factor receptors (“PDGFR”) alpha and beta and fibroblast growth factor receptors (“FGFR”) 1-3, and rociletinib, an oral mutant-selective inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor (“EGFR”). While we have stopped enrollment in ongoing trials for each of these candidates, we continue to provide drug to patients whose clinicians recommend continuing therapy. We maintain certain development and commercialization rights for lucitanib and global development and commercialization rights for rociletinib.We commenced operations in April 2009. To date, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to identifying and in-licensing product candidates, performing development activities with respect to those product candidates and the general and administrative support of these operations. Through December 31, 2017, we have generated $13.6 million in license and milestone revenue related to our collaboration and license agreement with Servier and for the year ended December 31, 2017 have generated $55.5 million product revenue related to sales of Rubraca, which we began to commercialize on December 19, 2016. We have principally funded our operations using the net proceeds from the sale of convertible preferred stock, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, public offerings of our common stock and our convertible senior notes offering.We have never been profitable and, as of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,447.4 million. We incurred net losses of $346.4 million, $349.1 million and $352.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and had cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities totaling $563.7 million at December 31, 2017. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our financial statements and related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read the “Risk Factors” section of this report for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on acquiring, developing and commercializing innovative anti-cancer agents in the United States, Europe and additional international markets. We target our development programs for the treatment of specific subsets of cancer populations, and simultaneously develop, with partners, diagnostic tools intended to direct a compound in development to the population that is most likely to benefit from its use. Our marketed product Rubraca® (rucaparib) is approved on an accelerated basis in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with deleterious BRCA (human genes associated with the repair of damaged DNA) mutation (germline and/or somatic) associated advanced ovarian cancer who have been treated with two or more chemotherapies, and selected for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for Rubraca. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. We launched Rubraca in the United States in December 2016 for this indication. The FDA is currently reviewing on a priority review timeline our sNDA for Rubraca as maintenance treatment of adult patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in a complete or partial response to platinum-based chemotherapy. Our MAA submitted to the EMA for an ovarian cancer treatment indication for Rubraca is currently under review by the EMA’s CHMP. Following a Scientific Advisory Group - Oncology meeting and an oral explanation by us before the CHMP in February 2018, the CHMP has communicated a positive trend vote for the MAA and their intention to hold a final vote on the treatment indication at their March 2018 meeting. In addition, we have two other product candidates: lucitanib, an oral inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase activity of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (“VEGFR”) 1-3, platelet-derived growth factor receptors (“PDGFR”) alpha and beta and fibroblast growth factor receptors (“FGFR”) 1-3, and rociletinib, an oral mutant-selective inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor (“EGFR”). While we have stopped enrollment in ongoing trials for each of these candidates, we continue to provide drug to patients whose clinicians recommend continuing therapy. We maintain certain development and commercialization rights for lucitanib and global development and commercialization rights for rociletinib. We commenced operations in April 2009. To date, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to identifying and in-licensing product candidates, performing development activities with respect to those product candidates and the general and administrative support of these operations. Through December 31, 2017, we have generated $13.6 million in license and milestone revenue related to our collaboration and license agreement with Servier and for the year ended December 31, 2017 have generated $55.5 million product revenue related to sales of Rubraca, which we began to commercialize on December 19, 2016. We have principally funded our operations using the net proceeds from the sale of convertible preferred stock, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, public offerings of our common stock and our convertible senior notes offering. We have never been profitable and, as of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,447.4 million. We incurred net losses of $346.4 million, $349.1 million and $352.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and had cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities totaling $563.7 million at December 31, 2017. We expect to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, as we incur costs related to commercial activities associated with Rubraca. In January 2017, we sold 5,750,000 shares of our common stock in a public offering at $41.00 per share. The net proceeds from the offering were $221.2 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. In June 2017, we sold 3,920,454 shares of our common stock in a public offering at $88.00 per share. The net proceeds from the offering were $324.6 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. Based on our current estimates, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities will allow us to fund activities through at least the next 12 months. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue from Rubraca, we expect to finance our operations in part through additional public or private equity or debt offerings and may seek additional capital through arrangements with strategic partners or from other sources. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability, and we may never do so.Product License AgreementsFor a discussion of our product license agreements, see Note 13,License Agreements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Financial Operations OverviewRevenueDuring 2017, we recorded $55.5 million in revenue related to sales of Rubraca, which we began to commercialize on December 19, 2016. In addition, we distributed free drug to eligible patients through our patient assistance program that represented approximately $14.1 million in commercial value. For further discussion of our revenue recognition policy, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates” below. Our ability to generate revenue and become profitable depends upon our ability to successfully commercialize products. Any inability on our part to successfully commercialize Rubraca in the United States and any foreign territories where it may be approved, or any significant delay in such approvals, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to execute upon our business strategy and, ultimately, to generate sufficient revenues from Rubraca to reach or maintain profitability or sustain our anticipated levels of operations.Currently, we only recognize revenue on product sales once the product is sold to the patient or healthcare provider by the specialty distributor or specialty pharmacy provider, therefore reducing the significance of estimates made for product returns. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”), Topic 606, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. Upon adoption, we will begin recognizing revenue when our customers, the specialty distributors and specialty pharmacy providers, take control of our product. This will have the impact of us recognizing revenue approximately two to four weeks earlier than before adopting the new standard and will also increase the significance of estimating variable consideration, including product returns, rebates and chargebacks.We used the modified retrospective method to adopt the new standard. This means that we will not restate previously issued financial statements, but will record a one-time adjustment to retained earnings of $2.3 million. This adjustment represents the sales of our product to our customers prior to January 1, 2018, that have not been sold to patients or healthcare providers, offset by related gross-to-net adjustments and other direct costs, including royalties and sales incentive compensation.During 2017, revenue was recognized for U.S. tax purposes when our product was sold to the specialty distributors and pharmacies, a method that differs from book treatment. This difference in revenue recognition resulted in the establishment of the deferred tax asset for the sales value of our product held by our specialty distributor and pharmacy providers at December 31, 2017. The deferred tax asset was offset by a full valuation allowance and has no impact to our statement of operations. With the adoption of ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018, revenue will be recognized when our product is sold to the specialty distributors pharmacies, which will match the tax treatment resulting in no deferred tax asset. We expect to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, as we incur costs related to commercial activities associated with Rubraca. In January 2017, we sold 5,750,000 shares of our common stock in a public offering at $41.00 per share. The net proceeds from the offering were $221.2 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. In June 2017, we sold 3,920,454 shares of our common stock in a public offering at $88.00 per share. The net proceeds from the offering were $324.6 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. Based on our current estimates, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities will allow us to fund activities through at least the next 12 months. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue from Rubraca, we expect to finance our operations in part through additional public or private equity or debt offerings and may seek additional capital through arrangements with strategic partners or from other sources. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability, and we may never do so. For a discussion of our product license agreements, see Note 13,License Agreements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a discussion of our product license agreements, see Note 13, , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. During 2017, we recorded $55.5 million in revenue related to sales of Rubraca, which we began to commercialize on December 19, 2016. In addition, we distributed free drug to eligible patients through our patient assistance program that represented approximately $14.1 million in commercial value. For further discussion of our revenue recognition policy, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates” below. Our ability to generate revenue and become profitable depends upon our ability to successfully commercialize products. Any inability on our part to successfully commercialize Rubraca in the United States and any foreign territories where it may be approved, or any significant delay in such approvals, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to execute upon our business strategy and, ultimately, to generate sufficient revenues from Rubraca to reach or maintain profitability or sustain our anticipated levels of operations. Currently, we only recognize revenue on product sales once the product is sold to the patient or healthcare provider by the specialty distributor or specialty pharmacy provider, therefore reducing the significance of estimates made for product returns. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”), Topic 606, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. Upon adoption, we will begin recognizing revenue when our customers, the specialty distributors and specialty pharmacy providers, take control of our product. This will have the impact of us recognizing revenue approximately two to four weeks earlier than before adopting the new standard and will also increase the significance of estimating variable consideration, including product returns, rebates and chargebacks. We used the modified retrospective method to adopt the new standard. This means that we will not restate previously issued financial statements, but will record a one-time adjustment to retained earnings of $2.3 million. This adjustment represents the sales of our product to our customers prior to January 1, 2018, that have not been sold to patients or healthcare providers, offset by related gross-to-net adjustments and other direct costs, including royalties and sales incentive compensation. During 2017, revenue was recognized for U.S. tax purposes when our product was sold to the specialty distributors and pharmacies, a method that differs from book treatment. This difference in revenue recognition resulted in the establishment of the deferred tax asset for the sales value of our product held by our specialty distributor and pharmacy providers at December 31, 2017. The deferred tax asset was offset by a full valuation allowance and has no impact to our statement of operations. With the adoption of ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018, revenue will be recognized when our product is sold to the specialty distributors pharmacies, which will match the tax treatment resulting in no deferred tax asset. For a complete discussion of this adoption and the accounting for net product revenue, see Note 2,Summary of Significant Accounting Policiesin the “Recently Issued Accounting Standards”section and Note 11,Revenue Recognition.Research and Development ExpensesResearch and development expenses consist of costs incurred for the development of our product candidates and companion diagnostics, which include:·license fees and milestone payments related to the acquisition of in-licensed products, which are reported on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss as acquired in-process research and development;·employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation expense;·expenses incurred under agreements with CROs and investigative sites that conduct our clinical trials;·the cost of acquiring, developing and manufacturing clinical trial materials;·costs associated with non-clinical activities and regulatory operations;·market research, disease education and other commercial product planning activities, including the hiring of a U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organization in preparation for commercial launch of rucaparib; and·activities associated with the development of companion diagnostics for our product candidates.Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. License fees and milestone payments related to in-licensed products and technology are expensed if it is determined that they have no alternative future use. Costs for certain development activities, such as clinical trials and manufacturing of clinical supply, are recognized based on an evaluation of the progress to completion of specific tasks using data such as patient enrollment, clinical site activations or information provided to us by our vendors. As a result of the FDA approval of Rubraca and the discontinuation of enrollment in rociletinib, our research and development expenses decreased for 2017 as commercialization related expenses are classified as selling, general and administrative expenses and not research and development costs. Our research and development expenses will increase in 2018 as our ongoing rucaparib studies progress.The following table identifies research and development and acquired in-process research and development costs on a program-specific basis for our products under development. Personnel-related costs, depreciation and share-based compensation are not allocated to specific programs, as they are deployed across multiple projects under development and, as such, are separately classified as personnel and other expenses in the table below.Year Ended December 31,201720162015(in thousands)Rucaparib ExpensesResearch and development$72,901$101,598$58,922Acquired in-process research and development—1,300—Rucaparib Total72,901102,89858,922Lucitanib ExpensesResearch and development (a)(1,187)(1,337)1,923Lucitanib Total(1,187)(1,337)1,923Rociletinib ExpensesResearch and development7,71243,768122,912Acquired in-process research and development——12,000Rociletinib Total7,71243,768134,912Personnel and other expenses63,072107,10085,494Total$142,498$252,429$281,251(a)This amount reflects actual costs incurred less amounts due from Servier for reimbursable development expenses pursuant to the collaboration and license agreement described in Note 13,License Agreements,to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.For 2017 and 2016, research and development expenses have continued to decrease primarily due to decreased development activities for the rociletinib program. For a complete discussion of this adoption and the accounting for net product revenue, see Note 2,Summary of Significant Accounting Policiesin the “Recently Issued Accounting Standards”section and Note 11,Revenue Recognition. For a complete discussion of this adoption and the accounting for net product revenue, see Note 2, Research and development expenses consist of costs incurred for the development of our product candidates and companion diagnostics, which include: ·license fees and milestone payments related to the acquisition of in-licensed products, which are reported on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss as acquired in-process research and development; license fees and milestone payments related to the acquisition of in-licensed products, which are reported on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss as acquired in-process research and development; ·employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation expense; employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation expense; ·expenses incurred under agreements with CROs and investigative sites that conduct our clinical trials; expenses incurred under agreements with CROs and investigative sites that conduct our clinical trials; ·the cost of acquiring, developing and manufacturing clinical trial materials; the cost of acquiring, developing and manufacturing clinical trial materials; ·costs associated with non-clinical activities and regulatory operations; costs associated with non-clinical activities and regulatory operations; ·market research, disease education and other commercial product planning activities, including the hiring of a U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organization in preparation for commercial launch of rucaparib; and market research, disease education and other commercial product planning activities, including the hiring of a U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organization in preparation for commercial launch of rucaparib; and ·activities associated with the development of companion diagnostics for our product candidates. activities associated with the development of companion diagnostics for our product candidates. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. License fees and milestone payments related to in-licensed products and technology are expensed if it is determined that they have no alternative future use. Costs for certain development activities, such as clinical trials and manufacturing of clinical supply, are recognized based on an evaluation of the progress to completion of specific tasks using data such as patient enrollment, clinical site activations or information provided to us by our vendors. As a result of the FDA approval of Rubraca and the discontinuation of enrollment in rociletinib, our research and development expenses decreased for 2017 as commercialization related expenses are classified as selling, general and administrative expenses and not research and development costs. Our research and development expenses will increase in 2018 as our ongoing rucaparib studies progress. The following table identifies research and development and acquired in-process research and development costs on a program-specific basis for our products under development. Personnel-related costs, depreciation and share-based compensation are not allocated to specific programs, as they are deployed across multiple projects under development and, as such, are separately classified as personnel and other expenses in the table below. Year Ended December 31,201720162015(in thousands)Rucaparib ExpensesResearch and development$72,901$101,598$58,922Acquired in-process research and development—1,300—Rucaparib Total72,901102,89858,922Lucitanib ExpensesResearch and development (a)(1,187)(1,337)1,923Lucitanib Total(1,187)(1,337)1,923Rociletinib ExpensesResearch and development7,71243,768122,912Acquired in-process research and development——12,000Rociletinib Total7,71243,768134,912Personnel and other expenses63,072107,10085,494Total$142,498$252,429$281,251 (a)This amount reflects actual costs incurred less amounts due from Servier for reimbursable development expenses pursuant to the collaboration and license agreement described in Note 13,License Agreements,to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (a)This amount reflects actual costs incurred less amounts due from Servier for reimbursable development expenses pursuant to the collaboration and license agreement described in Note 13, to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For 2017 and 2016, research and development expenses have continued to decrease primarily due to decreased development activities for the rociletinib program. Selling, General and Administrative ExpensesSelling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of salaries and related costs for personnel in executive, finance, legal, investor relations, human resources and information technology functions. Other general and administrative expenses include facilities expenses, communication expenses, information technology costs, corporate insurance and professional fees for legal, consulting and accounting services. With the FDA approval of Rubraca on December 19, 2016, all sales and marketing expenses associated with Rubraca are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. We anticipate that our selling, general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in the future in support of our commercial activities related to Rubraca in the U.S. and Europe.Acquired In-Process Research and Development ExpensesAcquired in-process research and development expenses consist of upfront payments to acquire a new drug compound, as well as subsequent milestone payments. Acquired in-process research and development payments are immediately expensed provided that the drug has not achieved regulatory approval for marketing and, absent obtaining such approval, has no alternative future use. Once regulatory approval is received, payments to acquire rights, and the related milestone payments, are capitalized and the amortization of such assets recorded to product cost of sales.Impairment of Intangible AssetIn connection with the acquisition of EOS in November 2013, we recorded intangible assets to reflect the fair value of acquired in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) as of the acquisition date. The fair value was established based upon discounted cash flow models using assumptions related to the timing of development, probability of development and regulatory success, sales and commercialization factors and estimated product life. During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $104.5 million impairment charge due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded an $89.6 million impairment charge to the IPR&D intangible assets. At December 31, 2017, the IPR&D intangible asset recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was zero.Change in Fair Value of Contingent Purchase ConsiderationIn connection with the acquisition of EOS in November 2013, we also recorded a purchase consideration liability equal to the estimated fair value of future payments that are contingent upon the achievement of various regulatory and sales milestones. Subsequent to the acquisition date, we re-measure contingent consideration arrangements at fair value each reporting period and record changes in fair value to change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration and foreign currency gains (losses) for changes in the foreign currency translation rate on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. Changes in fair value are primarily attributed to new information about the likelihood of achieving such milestones and the passage of time. In the absence of new information, changes to fair value reflect only the passage of time as we progress towards the achievement of future milestones.During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $25.5 million reduction in the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration liability due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded a $26.9 million reduction in the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration liability due to a change in the estimated probability-weighted future milestone payments, as well as the timing of such payments, for the lucitanib program. At December 31, 2017, the contingent purchase consideration liability recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets remained at zero due to the uncertainty of achieving any of the lucitanib regulatory milestones, and therefore the remote likelihood of future milestone payout amounts to the former EOS shareholders.Other Income and ExpenseOther income and expense is primarily comprised of foreign currency gains and losses resulting from transactions with CROs, investigational sites and contract manufacturers where payments are made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Other expense also includes interest expense recognized related to our convertible senior notes. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of salaries and related costs for personnel in executive, finance, legal, investor relations, human resources and information technology functions. Other general and administrative expenses include facilities expenses, communication expenses, information technology costs, corporate insurance and professional fees for legal, consulting and accounting services. With the FDA approval of Rubraca on December 19, 2016, all sales and marketing expenses associated with Rubraca are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. We anticipate that our selling, general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in the future in support of our commercial activities related to Rubraca in the U.S. and Europe. Acquired in-process research and development expenses consist of upfront payments to acquire a new drug compound, as well as subsequent milestone payments. Acquired in-process research and development payments are immediately expensed provided that the drug has not achieved regulatory approval for marketing and, absent obtaining such approval, has no alternative future use. Once regulatory approval is received, payments to acquire rights, and the related milestone payments, are capitalized and the amortization of such assets recorded to product cost of sales. In connection with the acquisition of EOS in November 2013, we recorded intangible assets to reflect the fair value of acquired in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) as of the acquisition date. The fair value was established based upon discounted cash flow models using assumptions related to the timing of development, probability of development and regulatory success, sales and commercialization factors and estimated product life. During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $104.5 million impairment charge due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded an $89.6 million impairment charge to the IPR&D intangible assets. At December 31, 2017, the IPR&D intangible asset recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was zero. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Purchase Consideration In connection with the acquisition of EOS in November 2013, we also recorded a purchase consideration liability equal to the estimated fair value of future payments that are contingent upon the achievement of various regulatory and sales milestones. Subsequent to the acquisition date, we re-measure contingent consideration arrangements at fair value each reporting period and record changes in fair value to change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration and foreign currency gains (losses) for changes in the foreign currency translation rate on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. Changes in fair value are primarily attributed to new information about the likelihood of achieving such milestones and the passage of time. In the absence of new information, changes to fair value reflect only the passage of time as we progress towards the achievement of future milestones.During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $25.5 million reduction in the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration liability due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded a $26.9 million reduction in the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration liability due to a change in the estimated probability-weighted future milestone payments, as well as the timing of such payments, for the lucitanib program. At December 31, 2017, the contingent purchase consideration liability recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets remained at zero due to the uncertainty of achieving any of the lucitanib regulatory milestones, and therefore the remote likelihood of future milestone payout amounts to the former EOS shareholders. In connection with the acquisition of EOS in November 2013, we also recorded a purchase consideration liability equal to the estimated fair value of future payments that are contingent upon the achievement of various regulatory and sales milestones. Subsequent to the acquisition date, we re-measure contingent consideration arrangements at fair value each reporting period and record changes in fair value to change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration and foreign currency gains (losses) for changes in the foreign currency translation rate on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. Changes in fair value are primarily attributed to new information about the likelihood of achieving such milestones and the passage of time. In the absence of new information, changes to fair value reflect only the passage of time as we progress towards the achievement of future milestones. During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $25.5 million reduction in the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration liability due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded a $26.9 million reduction in the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration liability due to a change in the estimated probability-weighted future milestone payments, as well as the timing of such payments, for the lucitanib program. At December 31, 2017, the contingent purchase consideration liability recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets remained at zero due to the uncertainty of achieving any of the lucitanib regulatory milestones, and therefore the remote likelihood of future milestone payout amounts to the former EOS shareholders. Other income and expense is primarily comprised of foreign currency gains and losses resulting from transactions with CROs, investigational sites and contract manufacturers where payments are made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Other expense also includes interest expense recognized related to our convertible senior notes. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and EstimatesOur discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, expenses and revenue and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue, intangible asset impairment, clinical trial accruals and share-based compensation expense. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.Our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe the following accounting policies to be most critical to the judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements.Revenue RecognitionWe are currently approved to sell Rubraca in the United States markets. We distribute our product principally through a limited number of specialty distributor and specialty pharmacy providers, collectively, our customers. Our customers subsequently sell our products to patients and health care providers. Separately, we have arrangements with certain payors and other third parties that provide for government-mandated and privately-negotiated rebates, chargebacks and discounts.Revenues from product sales are recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred and title of the product and associated risk of loss has passed to the customer, the price is fixed or determinable, collection from the customer has been reasonably assured and all performance obligations have been met and returns and allowances can be reasonably estimated. Product sales are recorded net of estimated rebates, chargebacks, discounts and other deductions as well as estimated product returns. Estimating rebates, chargebacks, discounts, product returns and other deductions requires significant judgments about future events and uncertainties, and requires us to rely heavily on assumptions, as well as historical experience. We only recognize revenue on product sales once the product is sold to the patient or healthcare provider by the specialty distributor or specialty pharmacy provider, therefore reducing the significance of estimates made for product returns.For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized $55.5 million of product revenue. Based on our policy to expense costs associated with the manufacture of our products prior to regulatory approval, certain of the costs of Rubraca units recognized as revenue during the year ended December 31, 2017 were expensed prior to the December 19, 2016 FDA approval, and a minimal amount is included in cost of sales during the current period. We expect cost of sales to increase in relation to product revenues as we deplete these inventories. The majority of products sales were of pre-commercialization inventory in 2017.Revenue is recognized from milestone payments when the following criteria have been met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) the price is fixed or determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. We exercise judgment in determining that collectability is reasonably assured or that services have been delivered in accordance with the arrangement. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess collectability based primarily on the customer’s payment history and creditworthiness of the customer. Payments that are contingent upon the achievement of a milestone will be recognized in the period in which the milestone is achieved.Accrued Research and Development ExpensesAs part of the process of preparing our financial statements, we are required to estimate our accrued expenses. This process involves reviewing open contracts and purchase orders, communicating with our personnel to identify services that have been performed on our behalf and estimating the level of service performed and the associated cost incurred for the service when we have not yet been invoiced or otherwise notified of the actual cost. The majority of our service providers invoice us monthly in arrears for services performed or when contractual milestones are met. We make Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, expenses and revenue and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue, intangible asset impairment, clinical trial accruals and share-based compensation expense. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe the following accounting policies to be most critical to the judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. We are currently approved to sell Rubraca in the United States markets. We distribute our product principally through a limited number of specialty distributor and specialty pharmacy providers, collectively, our customers. Our customers subsequently sell our products to patients and health care providers. Separately, we have arrangements with certain payors and other third parties that provide for government-mandated and privately-negotiated rebates, chargebacks and discounts. Revenues from product sales are recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred and title of the product and associated risk of loss has passed to the customer, the price is fixed or determinable, collection from the customer has been reasonably assured and all performance obligations have been met and returns and allowances can be reasonably estimated. Product sales are recorded net of estimated rebates, chargebacks, discounts and other deductions as well as estimated product returns. Estimating rebates, chargebacks, discounts, product returns and other deductions requires significant judgments about future events and uncertainties, and requires us to rely heavily on assumptions, as well as historical experience. We only recognize revenue on product sales once the product is sold to the patient or healthcare provider by the specialty distributor or specialty pharmacy provider, therefore reducing the significance of estimates made for product returns. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized $55.5 million of product revenue. Based on our policy to expense costs associated with the manufacture of our products prior to regulatory approval, certain of the costs of Rubraca units recognized as revenue during the year ended December 31, 2017 were expensed prior to the December 19, 2016 FDA approval, and a minimal amount is included in cost of sales during the current period. We expect cost of sales to increase in relation to product revenues as we deplete these inventories. The majority of products sales were of pre-commercialization inventory in 2017. Revenue is recognized from milestone payments when the following criteria have been met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) the price is fixed or determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. We exercise judgment in determining that collectability is reasonably assured or that services have been delivered in accordance with the arrangement. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess collectability based primarily on the customer’s payment history and creditworthiness of the customer. Payments that are contingent upon the achievement of a milestone will be recognized in the period in which the milestone is achieved. As part of the process of preparing our financial statements, we are required to estimate our accrued expenses. This process involves reviewing open contracts and purchase orders, communicating with our personnel to identify services that have been performed on our behalf and estimating the level of service performed and the associated cost incurred for the service when we have not yet been invoiced or otherwise notified of the actual cost. The majority of our service providers invoice us monthly in arrears for services performed or when contractual milestones are met. We make estimates of our accrued expenses as of each balance sheet date in our financial statements based on facts and circumstances known to us at that time. We periodically confirm the accuracy of our estimates with the service providers and make adjustments if necessary. Examples of estimated accrued research and development expenses include:·fees paid to CROs in connection with clinical studies;·fees paid to investigative sites in connection with clinical studies;·fees paid to vendors in connection with non-clinical development activities;·fees paid to vendors associated with the development of companion diagnostics; and·fees paid to vendors related to product manufacturing, development and distribution of clinical supplies.We base our expenses related to clinical studies on our estimates of the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with multiple CROs that conduct and manage clinical studies on our behalf. The financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation, vary from contract to contract and may result in uneven payment flows. There may be instances in which payments made to our vendors will exceed the level of services provided and result in a prepayment of the clinical expense. Payments under some of these contracts depend on factors such as the successful enrollment of patients and the completion of clinical trial milestones. In accruing service fees, we estimate the time period over which services will be performed, enrollment of patients, number of sites activated and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from our estimate, we adjust the accrual or prepaid accordingly. Although we do not expect our estimates to be materially different from amounts actually incurred, our understanding of the status and timing of services performed relative to the actual status and timing of services performed may vary and may result in us reporting amounts that are too high or too low in any particular period.Share-Based CompensationDetermining the amount of share-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates of the fair value of stock options as of their grant date. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period of the award. Calculating the fair value of share-based awards requires that we make highly subjective assumptions. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to value our stock option awards. Use of this valuation methodology requires that we make assumptions as to the expected dividend yield, price volatility of our common stock, the risk-free interest rate for a period that approximates the expected term of our stock options and the expected term of our stock options. We utilize a dividend yield of zero based on the fact that we have never paid cash dividends and have no current intention to pay cash dividends.The fair value of stock options for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was estimated at the grant date using the following weighted average assumptions for the respective periods:Year Ended December 31,201720162015Dividend yield———Volatility (a)89%93%72%Risk-free interest rate (b)2.16%1.77%1.77%Expected term (years) (c)5.85.86.1(a)Volatility: The expected volatility was estimated using our historical data.(b)Risk-free interest rate: The rate is based on the yield on the grant date of a zero-coupon U.S. Treasury bond whose maturity period approximates the option’s expected term.(c)Expected term: The expected term of the award was estimated using our historical data.We recognized share-based compensation expense of approximately $44.7 million, $39.8 million and $40.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had $89.4 million in total unrecognized share-based compensation expense, net of related forfeiture estimates, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average remaining vesting period of 3.3 years. We expect our share-based compensation to continue to grow in future periods due to the potential increases in the value of our common stock and headcount.We estimate the level of forfeitures expected to occur and record compensation expense only for those awards that we ultimately expect will vest. estimates of our accrued expenses as of each balance sheet date in our financial statements based on facts and circumstances known to us at that time. We periodically confirm the accuracy of our estimates with the service providers and make adjustments if necessary. Examples of estimated accrued research and development expenses include: ·fees paid to CROs in connection with clinical studies; fees paid to CROs in connection with clinical studies; ·fees paid to investigative sites in connection with clinical studies; fees paid to investigative sites in connection with clinical studies; ·fees paid to vendors in connection with non-clinical development activities; fees paid to vendors in connection with non-clinical development activities; ·fees paid to vendors associated with the development of companion diagnostics; and fees paid to vendors associated with the development of companion diagnostics; and ·fees paid to vendors related to product manufacturing, development and distribution of clinical supplies. fees paid to vendors related to product manufacturing, development and distribution of clinical supplies. We base our expenses related to clinical studies on our estimates of the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with multiple CROs that conduct and manage clinical studies on our behalf. The financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation, vary from contract to contract and may result in uneven payment flows. There may be instances in which payments made to our vendors will exceed the level of services provided and result in a prepayment of the clinical expense. Payments under some of these contracts depend on factors such as the successful enrollment of patients and the completion of clinical trial milestones. In accruing service fees, we estimate the time period over which services will be performed, enrollment of patients, number of sites activated and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from our estimate, we adjust the accrual or prepaid accordingly. Although we do not expect our estimates to be materially different from amounts actually incurred, our understanding of the status and timing of services performed relative to the actual status and timing of services performed may vary and may result in us reporting amounts that are too high or too low in any particular period. Determining the amount of share-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates of the fair value of stock options as of their grant date. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period of the award. Calculating the fair value of share-based awards requires that we make highly subjective assumptions. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to value our stock option awards. Use of this valuation methodology requires that we make assumptions as to the expected dividend yield, price volatility of our common stock, the risk-free interest rate for a period that approximates the expected term of our stock options and the expected term of our stock options. We utilize a dividend yield of zero based on the fact that we have never paid cash dividends and have no current intention to pay cash dividends. The fair value of stock options for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was estimated at the grant date using the following weighted average assumptions for the respective periods: (a)Volatility: The expected volatility was estimated using our historical data. : The expected volatility was estimated using our historical data. (b)Risk-free interest rate: The rate is based on the yield on the grant date of a zero-coupon U.S. Treasury bond whose maturity period approximates the option’s expected term. : The rate is based on the yield on the grant date of a zero-coupon U.S. Treasury bond whose maturity period approximates the option’s expected term. (c)Expected term: The expected term of the award was estimated using our historical data. : The expected term of the award was estimated using our historical data. We recognized share-based compensation expense of approximately $44.7 million, $39.8 million and $40.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had $89.4 million in total unrecognized share-based compensation expense, net of related forfeiture estimates, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average remaining vesting period of 3.3 years. We expect our share-based compensation to continue to grow in future periods due to the potential increases in the value of our common stock and headcount. We estimate the level of forfeitures expected to occur and record compensation expense only for those awards that we ultimately expect will vest. Valuation of Contingent Consideration Resulting from a Business CombinationContingent consideration resulting from a business combination is reported at its fair value on the acquisition date. Each subsequent reporting period, the contingent consideration obligations are revalued and changes in fair value are recorded to change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration and foreign currency gains (losses) for changes in the foreign currency translation rate on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss.Changes to contingent consideration obligations can result from adjustments to discount rates and time periods, updates in the assumed achievement or timing of any development milestone or changes in the probability of certain clinical events and regulatory approvals. The assumptions related to determining the value of contingent consideration require significant judgment and changes to the assumptions may have a material impact on the amount of expense recorded in any given period. The acquisition of EOS resulted in the recognition of a contingent consideration liability, based on assumptions related to potential future payout amounts, estimated discount rate, probability of success for each milestone achievement and the estimated timing of the milestone payments to the former EOS shareholders.During the second quarter 2016, we recorded $25.5 million reduction in fair value of the contingent purchase consideration due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. At December 31, 2017, the contingent purchase consideration liability recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets remained at zero due to the uncertainty of achieving any of the lucitanib regulatory milestones, and therefore the remote likelihood of future milestone payout amounts to the former EOS shareholders.Intangible AssetsDefinite-lived intangible assets related to capitalized milestones under license agreements are amortized on a straight-line basis over their remaining useful lives, which are estimated to be the remaining patent life. If our estimate of the product’s useful life is shorter than the remaining patent life, then a shorter period is used. Amortization expense is recorded as a component of cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss.IPR&D assets were established as part of the acquisition of EOS in November 2013 and have not been amortized, but have been assessed for impairment.Intangible assets are evaluated for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently if impairment indicators exist. Events that could result in an impairment, or trigger an interim impairment assessment, include the decision to discontinue the development of a drug, the receipt of additional clinical or nonclinical data regarding our drug candidate or a potentially competitive drug candidate, changes in the clinical development program for a drug candidate, or new information regarding potential sales for the drug. In connection with any impairment assessment, the fair value of the intangible assets as of the date of assessment is compared to the carrying value of the intangible asset. Impairment losses are recognized if the carrying value of an intangible asset is both not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $104.5 million impairment charge to the IPR&D intangible assets due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer, thereby reducing the remaining carrying value to zero. Valuation of Contingent Consideration Resulting from a Business Combination Contingent consideration resulting from a business combination is reported at its fair value on the acquisition date. Each subsequent reporting period, the contingent consideration obligations are revalued and changes in fair value are recorded to change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration and foreign currency gains (losses) for changes in the foreign currency translation rate on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. Changes to contingent consideration obligations can result from adjustments to discount rates and time periods, updates in the assumed achievement or timing of any development milestone or changes in the probability of certain clinical events and regulatory approvals. The assumptions related to determining the value of contingent consideration require significant judgment and changes to the assumptions may have a material impact on the amount of expense recorded in any given period. The acquisition of EOS resulted in the recognition of a contingent consideration liability, based on assumptions related to potential future payout amounts, estimated discount rate, probability of success for each milestone achievement and the estimated timing of the milestone payments to the former EOS shareholders. During the second quarter 2016, we recorded $25.5 million reduction in fair value of the contingent purchase consideration due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. At December 31, 2017, the contingent purchase consideration liability recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets remained at zero due to the uncertainty of achieving any of the lucitanib regulatory milestones, and therefore the remote likelihood of future milestone payout amounts to the former EOS shareholders. Definite-lived intangible assets related to capitalized milestones under license agreements are amortized on a straight-line basis over their remaining useful lives, which are estimated to be the remaining patent life. If our estimate of the product’s useful life is shorter than the remaining patent life, then a shorter period is used. Amortization expense is recorded as a component of cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. IPR&D assets were established as part of the acquisition of EOS in November 2013 and have not been amortized, but have been assessed for impairment. Intangible assets are evaluated for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently if impairment indicators exist. Events that could result in an impairment, or trigger an interim impairment assessment, include the decision to discontinue the development of a drug, the receipt of additional clinical or nonclinical data regarding our drug candidate or a potentially competitive drug candidate, changes in the clinical development program for a drug candidate, or new information regarding potential sales for the drug. In connection with any impairment assessment, the fair value of the intangible assets as of the date of assessment is compared to the carrying value of the intangible asset. Impairment losses are recognized if the carrying value of an intangible asset is both not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $104.5 million impairment charge to the IPR&D intangible assets due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer, thereby reducing the remaining carrying value to zero. Results of OperationsComparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2017 to the Year Ended December 31, 2016ChangeYear ended December 31,Favorable/(Unfavorable)20172016$%Product revenue, net$55,511$78$55,43371,068%Operating expenses:Cost of sales - product10,2517010,18114,544%Cost of sales - intangible asset amortization1,486—1,486100%Research and development142,498251,129(108,631)(43)%Selling, general and administrative138,90740,73198,176241%Acquired in-process research and development—1,300(1,300)(100)%Impairment of intangible asset—104,517(104,517)(100)%Change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration—(24,936)24,936(100)%Total expenses293,142372,811(79,669)(21)%Operating loss(237,631)(372,733)135,102(36)%Other income (expense):Interest expense(10,428)(8,491)(1,937)23%Foreign currency gain (loss)(82)(580)498(86)%Legal settlement loss(105,477)—(105,477)100%Other income (expense)3,6436333,010476%Other income (expense), net(112,344)(8,438)(103,906)1,231%Loss before income taxes(349,975)(381,171)31,196(8)%Income tax benefit3,57832,034(28,456)(89)%Net loss$(346,397)$(349,137)$2,740(1)%Product Revenue, Net.Product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 was due to the recognition of $55.5 million of net product revenue from the sale of Rubraca, which was approved for sale in the United States markets on December 19, 2016. Revenue is recorded net of sales deductions comprised of rebates, chargebacks and other discounts. Sales deductions represented approximately 8.1% of the gross product revenue recognized in the year ended December 31, 2017 and summarized as follows:Year endedDecember 31, 2017$% of Gross Sales(in thousands)Gross product revenue$60,384100.0%Sales deductions:Government rebates and chargebacks2,5754.3%Discounts and fees2,2983.8%Total sales deductions4,8738.1%Product revenue, net$55,51191.9%Cost of Sales - Product.Product cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 relate to freight and royalties costs associated with Rubraca sales for the period. Based on our policy to expense costs associated with the manufacture of our products prior to regulatory approval, certain of the costs of Rubraca units recognized as revenue during the year ended December 31, 2017 were expensed prior to the December 19, 2016 FDA approval, and therefore are not included in costs of sales during the current period. We expect cost of sales to increase in relation to product revenues as we deplete these inventories. The majority of product sales were of pre-commercialization inventory in 2017.Cost of Sales – Intangible Asset Amortization. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized cost of sales of $1.5 million associated with the amortization of capitalized milestone payments related to the FDA approval of Rubraca. Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2017 to the Year Ended December 31, 2016 Change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration Product Revenue, Net.Product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 was due to the recognition of $55.5 million of net product revenue from the sale of Rubraca, which was approved for sale in the United States markets on December 19, 2016. Revenue is recorded net of sales deductions comprised of rebates, chargebacks and other discounts. Sales deductions represented approximately 8.1% of the gross product revenue recognized in the year ended December 31, 2017 and summarized as follows: Product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 was due to the recognition of $55.5 million of net product revenue from the sale of Rubraca, which was approved for sale in the United States markets on December 19, 2016. Revenue is recorded net of sales deductions comprised of rebates, chargebacks and other discounts. Sales deductions represented approximately 8.1% of the gross product revenue recognized in the year ended December 31, 2017 and summarized as follows: Year endedDecember 31, 2017$% of Gross Sales(in thousands)Gross product revenue$60,384100.0%Sales deductions:Government rebates and chargebacks2,5754.3%Discounts and fees2,2983.8%Total sales deductions4,8738.1%Product revenue, net$55,51191.9% Cost of Sales - Product.Product cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 relate to freight and royalties costs associated with Rubraca sales for the period. Based on our policy to expense costs associated with the manufacture of our products prior to regulatory approval, certain of the costs of Rubraca units recognized as revenue during the year ended December 31, 2017 were expensed prior to the December 19, 2016 FDA approval, and therefore are not included in costs of sales during the current period. We expect cost of sales to increase in relation to product revenues as we deplete these inventories. The majority of product sales were of pre-commercialization inventory in 2017. Product cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 relate to freight and royalties costs associated with Rubraca sales for the period. Based on our