ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION ANDRESULTS OF OPERATIONSYou should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our financial statements and related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read the “Risk Factors” section of this report for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis.OverviewWe are a biopharmaceutical company focused on acquiring, developing and commercializing innovative anti-cancer agents in the United States, Europe and additional international markets. We target our development programs for the treatment of specific subsets of cancer populations, and simultaneously develop, with partners, diagnostic tools intended to direct a compound in development to the population that is most likely to benefit from its use.Our commercial product Rubraca (rucaparib) is the first and only oral, small molecule poly ADP-ribose polymerase, or PARP, inhibitor of PARP1, PARP2 and PARP3 approved in the United States by the FDA as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with deleterious BRCA (human genes associated with the repair of damaged DNA) mutation (germline and/or somatic) associated advanced ovarian cancer, who have been treated with two or more chemotherapies, and selected for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for Rubraca.The MAA submission with the EMA for a comparable ovarian cancer indication was accepted by the EMA during the fourth quarter of 2016. Additionally, rucaparib is being studied as a potential maintenance therapy for ovarian cancer patients in the ARIEL3 trial. Data from ARIEL3 is anticipated in mid-2017. Pending positive data from ARIEL3, we intend to follow up with a supplemental NDA for second-line maintenance therapy in women with ovarian cancer who have responded to platinum-based therapy. Rucaparib is also being developed in patients with mutant BRCA tumors and other DNA repair deficiencies beyond BRCA – commonly referred to as homologous recombination deficiencies. Studies open for enrollment or under consideration include prostate, breast, pancreatic, gastroesophageal, bladder and lung cancers. We hold worldwide rights for rucaparib.In addition, we have two other product candidates: lucitanib, an oral inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase activity of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR) 1-3, platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFR) alpha and beta and fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFR) 1-3, and rociletinib, an oral mutant-selective inhibitor of EGFR. Clinical development for each of these candidates has ceased and we continue to provide drug to patients whose clinicians recommend continuing therapy. We maintain certain development and commercialization rights for lucitanib and global development and commercialization rights for rociletinib.We commenced operations in April 2009. To date, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to identifying and in-licensing product candidates, performing development activities with respect to those product candidates and the general and administrative support of these operations. Through December 31, 2016, we have generated $13.6 million in license and milestone revenue related to our collaboration and license agreement with Servier and have generated $0.1 million product revenue related to sales of Rubraca, which we began to commercialize on December 19, 2016. We have principally funded our operations using the net proceeds from the sale of convertible preferred stock, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, public offerings of our common stock and our convertible senior notes offering.We have never been profitable and, as of December 31, 2016, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,131.0 million. We incurred net losses of $349.1 million, $352.9 million and $160.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and had cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities totaling $266.2 million at December 31, 2016.We expect to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, as we incur costs related to commercial activities associated with Rubraca. In January 2017, we sold 5,750,000 shares of our common stock in a public offering at $41.00 per share. The net proceeds from the offering were $221.2 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. We intend to use the net proceeds of the offering for general corporate purposes, You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our financial statements and related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read the “Risk Factors” section of this report for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on acquiring, developing and commercializing innovative anti-cancer agents in the United States, Europe and additional international markets. We target our development programs for the treatment of specific subsets of cancer populations, and simultaneously develop, with partners, diagnostic tools intended to direct a compound in development to the population that is most likely to benefit from its use. Our commercial product Rubraca (rucaparib) is the first and only oral, small molecule poly ADP-ribose polymerase, or PARP, inhibitor of PARP1, PARP2 and PARP3 approved in the United States by the FDA as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with deleterious BRCA (human genes associated with the repair of damaged DNA) mutation (germline and/or somatic) associated advanced ovarian cancer, who have been treated with two or more chemotherapies, and selected for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for Rubraca. The MAA submission with the EMA for a comparable ovarian cancer indication was accepted by the EMA during the fourth quarter of 2016. Additionally, rucaparib is being studied as a potential maintenance therapy for ovarian cancer patients in the ARIEL3 trial. Data from ARIEL3 is anticipated in mid-2017. Pending positive data from ARIEL3, we intend to follow up with a supplemental NDA for second-line maintenance therapy in women with ovarian cancer who have responded to platinum-based therapy. Rucaparib is also being developed in patients with mutant BRCA tumors and other DNA repair deficiencies beyond BRCA – commonly referred to as homologous recombination deficiencies. Studies open for enrollment or under consideration include prostate, breast, pancreatic, gastroesophageal, bladder and lung cancers. We hold worldwide rights for rucaparib. In addition, we have two other product candidates: lucitanib, an oral inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase activity of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR) 1-3, platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFR) alpha and beta and fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFR) 1-3, and rociletinib, an oral mutant-selective inhibitor of EGFR. Clinical development for each of these candidates has ceased and we continue to provide drug to patients whose clinicians recommend continuing therapy. We maintain certain development and commercialization rights for lucitanib and global development and commercialization rights for rociletinib. We commenced operations in April 2009. To date, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to identifying and in-licensing product candidates, performing development activities with respect to those product candidates and the general and administrative support of these operations. Through December 31, 2016, we have generated $13.6 million in license and milestone revenue related to our collaboration and license agreement with Servier and have generated $0.1 million product revenue related to sales of Rubraca, which we began to commercialize on December 19, 2016. We have principally funded our operations using the net proceeds from the sale of convertible preferred stock, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, public offerings of our common stock and our convertible senior notes offering. We have never been profitable and, as of December 31, 2016, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,131.0 million. We incurred net losses of $349.1 million, $352.9 million and $160.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and had cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities totaling $266.2 million at December 31, 2016. We expect to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, as we incur costs related to commercial activities associated with Rubraca. In January 2017, we sold 5,750,000 shares of our common stock in a public offering at $41.00 per share. The net proceeds from the offering were $221.2 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. We intend to use the net proceeds of the offering for general corporate purposes, including commercial planning and sales and marketing expenses associated with the launch of Rubraca in the United States and, if approved by the EMA, in Europe, funding of our development programs, selling, general and administrative expenses, acquisition or licensing of additional product candidates or businesses and working capital. Based on our current estimates, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities will allow us to fund activities through at least the next 12 months. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue from Rubraca, we expect to finance our operations in part through additional public or private equity or debt offerings and may seek additional capital through arrangements with strategic partners or from other sources. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability, and we may never do so.Product License AgreementsRucaparibIn June 2011, we entered into a license agreement with Pfizer Inc. to acquire exclusive global development and commercialization rights to rucaparib. The exclusive rights are exclusive even as to Pfizer and include the right to grant sublicenses. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, we made a $7.0 million upfront payment to Pfizer. In April 2014, we initiated a pivotal registration study for rucaparib, which resulted in a $0.4 million milestone payment to Pfizer as required by the license agreement. In September 2016, we made a milestone payment of $0.5 million to Pfizer upon acceptance of the NDA for rucaparib by the FDA. The MAA submission with the EMA for a comparable ovarian cancer indication was completed and accepted by the MAA during the fourth quarter of 2016, which resulted in a $0.5 million milestone payment to Pfizer as required by the license agreement. These payments were recognized as acquired in-process research and development expense.On August 30, 2016, we entered into a first amendment to the worldwide license agreement with Pfizer, which amends the June 2011 existing worldwide license agreement to permit us to defer payment of the milestone payments payable upon (i) FDA approval of an NDA for 1stIndication in US and (ii) EMA approval of an MAA for 1stIndication in EU, to a date that is 18 months after the date of achievement of such milestones. In the event that we defer such milestone payments, we have agreed to certain higher payments related to the achievement of such milestones.On December 19, 2016, the FDA approved Rubraca tablets as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with deleterious BRCA mutation (germline and/or somatic) associated with advanced ovarian cancer, who have been treated with two or more chemotherapies, and selected for therapy based on FDA-approved companion diagnostic for Rubraca. The FDA approval resulted in a $0.75 million milestone payment to Pfizer as required by the license agreement. The FDA approval also resulted in the obligation to pay a $20.0 million milestone payment, for which we have exercised the option to defer payment by agreeing to pay $23.0 million within 18 months after the date of the FDA approval. These payments were recognized as intangible assets and amortized over the estimated remaining useful life of rucaparib.We are obligated under the license agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize rucaparib and we are responsible for all remaining development and commercialization costs for rucaparib. We are required to make regulatory milestone payments to Pfizer of up to an additional $69.75 million in aggregate if specified clinical study objectives and regulatory filings, acceptances and approvals are achieved. In addition, we are obligated to make sales milestone payments to Pfizer if specified annual sales targets for rucaparib are met, the majority of which relate to annual sales targets of $500.0 million and above, which, in the aggregate, could amount to total milestone payments of $170.0 million, and tiered royalty payments at a mid-teen percentage rate on our net sales, with standard provisions for royalty offsets to the extent we need to obtain any rights from third parties to commercialize rucaparib.The license agreement with Pfizer will remain in effect until the expiration of all of our royalty and sublicense revenue obligations to Pfizer, determined on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis, unless we elect to terminate the license agreement earlier. If we fail to meet our obligations under the agreement and are unable to cure such failure within specified time periods, Pfizer can terminate the agreement, resulting in a loss of our rights to rucaparib and an obligation to assign or license to Pfizer any intellectual property rights or other rights we may have in rucaparib, including our regulatory filings, regulatory approvals, patents and trademarks for rucaparib.In April 2012, we entered into a license agreement with AstraZeneca UK Limited to acquire exclusive rights associated with rucaparib under a family of patents and patent applications that claim methods of treating patients with including commercial planning and sales and marketing expenses associated with the launch of Rubraca in the United States and, if approved by the EMA, in Europe, funding of our development programs, selling, general and administrative expenses, acquisition or licensing of additional product candidates or businesses and working capital. Based on our current estimates, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities will allow us to fund activities through at least the next 12 months. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue from Rubraca, we expect to finance our operations in part through additional public or private equity or debt offerings and may seek additional capital through arrangements with strategic partners or from other sources. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability, and we may never do so. In June 2011, we entered into a license agreement with Pfizer Inc. to acquire exclusive global development and commercialization rights to rucaparib. The exclusive rights are exclusive even as to Pfizer and include the right to grant sublicenses. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, we made a $7.0 million upfront payment to Pfizer. In April 2014, we initiated a pivotal registration study for rucaparib, which resulted in a $0.4 million milestone payment to Pfizer as required by the license agreement. In September 2016, we made a milestone payment of $0.5 million to Pfizer upon acceptance of the NDA for rucaparib by the FDA. The MAA submission with the EMA for a comparable ovarian cancer indication was completed and accepted by the MAA during the fourth quarter of 2016, which resulted in a $0.5 million milestone payment to Pfizer as required by the license agreement. These payments were recognized as acquired in-process research and development expense. On August 30, 2016, we entered into a first amendment to the worldwide license agreement with Pfizer, which amends the June 2011 existing worldwide license agreement to permit us to defer payment of the milestone payments payable upon (i) FDA approval of an NDA for 1stIndication in US and (ii) EMA approval of an MAA for 1stIndication in EU, to a date that is 18 months after the date of achievement of such milestones. In the event that we defer such milestone payments, we have agreed to certain higher payments related to the achievement of such milestones. On August 30, 2016, we entered into a first amendment to the worldwide license agreement with Pfizer, which amends the June 2011 existing worldwide license agreement to permit us to defer payment of the milestone payments payable upon (i) FDA approval of an NDA for 1 Indication in US and (ii) EMA approval of an MAA for 1 Indication in EU, to a date that is 18 months after the date of achievement of such milestones. In the event that we defer such milestone payments, we have agreed to certain higher payments related to the achievement of such milestones. On December 19, 2016, the FDA approved Rubraca tablets as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with deleterious BRCA mutation (germline and/or somatic) associated with advanced ovarian cancer, who have been treated with two or more chemotherapies, and selected for therapy based on FDA-approved companion diagnostic for Rubraca. The FDA approval resulted in a $0.75 million milestone payment to Pfizer as required by the license agreement. The FDA approval also resulted in the obligation to pay a $20.0 million milestone payment, for which we have exercised the option to defer payment by agreeing to pay $23.0 million within 18 months after the date of the FDA approval. These payments were recognized as intangible assets and amortized over the estimated remaining useful life of rucaparib. We are obligated under the license agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize rucaparib and we are responsible for all remaining development and commercialization costs for rucaparib. We are required to make regulatory milestone payments to Pfizer of up to an additional $69.75 million in aggregate if specified clinical study objectives and regulatory filings, acceptances and approvals are achieved. In addition, we are obligated to make sales milestone payments to Pfizer if specified annual sales targets for rucaparib are met, the majority of which relate to annual sales targets of $500.0 million and above, which, in the aggregate, could amount to total milestone payments of $170.0 million, and tiered royalty payments at a mid-teen percentage rate on our net sales, with standard provisions for royalty offsets to the extent we need to obtain any rights from third parties to commercialize rucaparib. The license agreement with Pfizer will remain in effect until the expiration of all of our royalty and sublicense revenue obligations to Pfizer, determined on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis, unless we elect to terminate the license agreement earlier. If we fail to meet our obligations under the agreement and are unable to cure such failure within specified time periods, Pfizer can terminate the agreement, resulting in a loss of our rights to rucaparib and an obligation to assign or license to Pfizer any intellectual property rights or other rights we may have in rucaparib, including our regulatory filings, regulatory approvals, patents and trademarks for rucaparib. In April 2012, we entered into a license agreement with AstraZeneca UK Limited to acquire exclusive rights associated with rucaparib under a family of patents and patent applications that claim methods of treating patients with PARP inhibitors in certain indications. The license enables the development and commercialization of rucaparib for the uses claimed by these patents. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, we made an upfront payment of $0.25 million upon execution of the agreement. During the second quarter of 2016, we made a milestone payment of $0.3 million to AstraZeneca upon the NDA submission for rucaparib. These payments were recognized as acquired in-process research and development expense. The FDA approval of rucaparib on December 19, 2016 resulted in a $0.35 million milestone payment to AstraZeneca as required by the license agreement. This payment was recognized as intangible assets and amortized over the estimated remaining useful life of rucaparib. AstraZeneca will also receive royalties on any net sales of rucaparib.LucitanibIn October 2008, EOS (now known as Clovis Oncology Italy S.r.l.) entered into an exclusive license agreement with Advenchen to develop and commercialize lucitanib on a global basis, excluding China. We are obligated to pay Advenchen tiered royalties at percentage rates in the mid-single digits on net sales of lucitanib, based on the volume of annual net sales achieved. In addition, after giving effect to the first and second amendments to the license agreement, we are required to pay to Advenchen 25% of any consideration, excluding royalties, we receive from sublicensees, in lieu of the milestone obligations set forth in the agreement. We are obligated under the agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize at least one product containing lucitanib, and we are also responsible for all remaining development and commercialization costs for lucitanib. In the first quarter of 2014, we recognized acquired in-process research and development expense of $3.4 million, which represents 25% of the sublicense agreement consideration of $13.6 million received from Servier upon the end of opposition and appeal of the lucitanib patent by the European Patent Office.The license agreement with Advenchen will remain in effect until the expiration of all of our royalty obligations to Advenchen, determined on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis, unless we elect to terminate the agreement earlier. If we fail to meet our obligations under the agreement and are unable to cure such failure within specified time periods, Advenchen can terminate the agreement, resulting in a loss of our rights to lucitanib.In September 2012, EOS entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Servier whereby EOS sublicensed to Servier exclusive rights to develop and commercialize lucitanib in all countries outside of the U.S., Japan and China. In exchange for these rights, EOS received an upfront payment of €45.0 million. We are entitled to receive additional payments upon achievement of specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones up to €100.0 million in the aggregate, €10.0 million of which was received in the first quarter of 2014. In addition, we are entitled to receive sales milestone payments if specified annual sales targets for lucitanib are met, which, in the aggregate, could total €250.0 million. We are also entitled to receive royalties on sales of lucitanib by Servier.We and Servier are developing lucitanib pursuant to a development plan agreed to between the parties.Servier is responsible for all of the global development costs for lucitanib up to €80.0 million. Cumulative global development costs in excess of €80.0 million, if any, will be shared equally between us and Servier. During the second quarter of 2016, we and Servier agreed to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer and lung cancer and are continuing to evaluate what, if any, further development of lucitanib will be pursued. Based on current estimates, we expect to complete the committed on-going development activities in 2017 and expect full reimbursement of our development costs from Servier. Reimbursements are recorded as a reduction to research and development expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.RociletinibIn May 2010, we entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with Celgene to discover, develop and commercialize a covalent inhibitor of mutant forms of the EGFR gene product. Rociletinib was identified as the lead inhibitor candidate under the license agreement. We are responsible for all non-clinical, clinical, regulatory and other activities necessary to develop and commercialize rociletinib.We made an upfront payment of $2.0 million upon execution of the license agreement, a $4.0 million milestone payment in the first quarter of 2012 upon the acceptance by the FDA of our IND application for rociletinib and a $5.0 million milestone payment in the first quarter of 2014 upon the initiation of the Phase II study for rociletinib. In the third quarter of 2015, we made milestone payments totaling $12.0 million upon acceptance of the NDA and MAA for PARP inhibitors in certain indications. The license enables the development and commercialization of rucaparib for the uses claimed by these patents. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, we made an upfront payment of $0.25 million upon execution of the agreement. During the second quarter of 2016, we made a milestone payment of $0.3 million to AstraZeneca upon the NDA submission for rucaparib. These payments were recognized as acquired in-process research and development expense. The FDA approval of rucaparib on December 19, 2016 resulted in a $0.35 million milestone payment to AstraZeneca as required by the license agreement. This payment was recognized as intangible assets and amortized over the estimated remaining useful life of rucaparib. AstraZeneca will also receive royalties on any net sales of rucaparib. In October 2008, EOS (now known as Clovis Oncology Italy S.r.l.) entered into an exclusive license agreement with Advenchen to develop and commercialize lucitanib on a global basis, excluding China. We are obligated to pay Advenchen tiered royalties at percentage rates in the mid-single digits on net sales of lucitanib, based on the volume of annual net sales achieved. In addition, after giving effect to the first and second amendments to the license agreement, we are required to pay to Advenchen 25% of any consideration, excluding royalties, we receive from sublicensees, in lieu of the milestone obligations set forth in the agreement. We are obligated under the agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize at least one product containing lucitanib, and we are also responsible for all remaining development and commercialization costs for lucitanib. In the first quarter of 2014, we recognized acquired in-process research and development expense of $3.4 million, which represents 25% of the sublicense agreement consideration of $13.6 million received from Servier upon the end of opposition and appeal of the lucitanib patent by the European Patent Office. The license agreement with Advenchen will remain in effect until the expiration of all of our royalty obligations to Advenchen, determined on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis, unless we elect to terminate the agreement earlier. If we fail to meet our obligations under the agreement and are unable to cure such failure within specified time periods, Advenchen can terminate the agreement, resulting in a loss of our rights to lucitanib. In September 2012, EOS entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Servier whereby EOS sublicensed to Servier exclusive rights to develop and commercialize lucitanib in all countries outside of the U.S., Japan and China. In exchange for these rights, EOS received an upfront payment of €45.0 million. We are entitled to receive additional payments upon achievement of specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones up to €100.0 million in the aggregate, €10.0 million of which was received in the first quarter of 2014. In addition, we are entitled to receive sales milestone payments if specified annual sales targets for lucitanib are met, which, in the aggregate, could total €250.0 million. We are also entitled to receive royalties on sales of lucitanib by Servier. We and Servier are developing lucitanib pursuant to a development plan agreed to between the parties.Servier is responsible for all of the global development costs for lucitanib up to €80.0 million. Cumulative global development costs in excess of €80.0 million, if any, will be shared equally between us and Servier. During the second quarter of 2016, we and Servier agreed to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer and lung cancer and are continuing to evaluate what, if any, further development of lucitanib will be pursued. Based on current estimates, we expect to complete the committed on-going development activities in 2017 and expect full reimbursement of our development costs from Servier. Reimbursements are recorded as a reduction to research and development expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. We and Servier are developing lucitanib pursuant to a development plan agreed to between the parties Servier is responsible for all of the global development costs for lucitanib up to €80.0 million. Cumulative global development costs in excess of €80.0 million, if any, will be shared equally between us and Servier. During the second quarter of 2016, we and Servier agreed to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer and lung cancer and are continuing to evaluate what, if any, further development of lucitanib will be pursued. Based on current estimates, we expect to complete the committed on-going development activities in 2017 and expect full reimbursement of our development costs from Servier. Reimbursements are recorded as a reduction to research and development expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. In May 2010, we entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with Celgene to discover, develop and commercialize a covalent inhibitor of mutant forms of the EGFR gene product. Rociletinib was identified as the lead inhibitor candidate under the license agreement. We are responsible for all non-clinical, clinical, regulatory and other activities necessary to develop and commercialize rociletinib. We made an upfront payment of $2.0 million upon execution of the license agreement, a $4.0 million milestone payment in the first quarter of 2012 upon the acceptance by the FDA of our IND application for rociletinib and a $5.0 million milestone payment in the first quarter of 2014 upon the initiation of the Phase II study for rociletinib. In the third quarter of 2015, we made milestone payments totaling $12.0 million upon acceptance of the NDA and MAA for rociletinib by the FDA and EMA, respectively. We recognized all payments prior to commercial approval as acquired in-process research and development expense.During the second quarter of 2016, we received a CRL from the FDA for the rociletinib NDA. The FDA issues a CRL to indicate that their review of an application is complete and that the application is not ready for approval. In anticipation of receiving the CRL, we terminated enrollment in all ongoing sponsored clinical studies, although we continue to provide drug to patients whose clinicians recommend continuing rociletinib therapy. In addition, we withdrew our MAA for rociletinib on file with the EMA. We are continuing analyses of rociletinib data to determine whether certain populations of patients may represent an opportunity for a partner committed to investing in further clinical development.We are obligated to pay royalties at percentage rates ranging from mid-single digits to low-teens based on the volume of annual net sales achieved. We are required to pay up to an additional aggregate of $98.0 million in development and regulatory milestone payments if certain clinical study objectives and regulatory filings, acceptances and approvals are achieved. In addition, we are required to pay up to an aggregate of $120.0 million in sales milestone payments if certain annual sales targets are achieved.Financial Operations OverviewRevenueTo date, we have generated $13.6 million in license and milestone revenue related to our collaboration and license agreement with Servier. During December 2016, we recorded $0.1 million revenue related to sales of Rubraca, which we began to commercialize on December 19, 2016. For further discussion of our revenue recognition policy, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates” below. Our ability to generate revenue and become profitable depends upon our ability to successfully commercialize products. Any inability on our part to successfully commercialize Rubraca in the United States and any foreign territories where it may be approved, or any significant delay in such approvals, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to execute upon our business strategy and, ultimately, to generate sufficient revenues from Rubraca to reach or maintain profitability or sustain our anticipated levels of operations.Research and Development ExpensesResearch and development expenses consist of costs incurred for the development of our product candidates and companion diagnostics, which include:·license fees and milestone payments related to the acquisition of in-licensed products, which are reported on our Consolidated Statements of Operations as acquired in-process research and development;·employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation expense;·expenses incurred under agreements with contract research organizations (“CROs”) and investigative sites that conduct our clinical trials;·the cost of acquiring, developing and manufacturing clinical trial materials;·costs associated with non-clinical activities and regulatory operations;·market research, disease education and other commercial product planning activities, including the hiring of a U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organization in preparation for commercial launch of rucaparib; and·activities associated with the development of companion diagnostics for our product candidates.Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. License fees and milestone payments related to in-licensed products and technology are expensed if it is determined that they have no alternative future use. Costs for certain development activities, such as clinical trials and manufacturing of clinical supply, are recognized based on an evaluation of the progress to completion of specific tasks using data such as patient enrollment, clinical site activations or information provided to us by our vendors. As a result of the FDA approval of Rubraca and the discontinuation of enrollment in rociletinib, our research and development expenses will decrease for 2017 as we continue to commercialize Rubraca and commercialization related expenses are classified as selling, general and administrative expenses and not research and development costs. rociletinib by the FDA and EMA, respectively. We recognized all payments prior to commercial approval as acquired in-process research and development expense. During the second quarter of 2016, we received a CRL from the FDA for the rociletinib NDA. The FDA issues a CRL to indicate that their review of an application is complete and that the application is not ready for approval. In anticipation of receiving the CRL, we terminated enrollment in all ongoing sponsored clinical studies, although we continue to provide drug to patients whose clinicians recommend continuing rociletinib therapy. In addition, we withdrew our MAA for rociletinib on file with the EMA. We are continuing analyses of rociletinib data to determine whether certain populations of patients may represent an opportunity for a partner committed to investing in further clinical development. We are obligated to pay royalties at percentage rates ranging from mid-single digits to low-teens based on the volume of annual net sales achieved. We are required to pay up to an additional aggregate of $98.0 million in development and regulatory milestone payments if certain clinical study objectives and regulatory filings, acceptances and approvals are achieved. In addition, we are required to pay up to an aggregate of $120.0 million in sales milestone payments if certain annual sales targets are achieved. To date, we have generated $13.6 million in license and milestone revenue related to our collaboration and license agreement with Servier. During December 2016, we recorded $0.1 million revenue related to sales of Rubraca, which we began to commercialize on December 19, 2016. For further discussion of our revenue recognition policy, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates” below. Our ability to generate revenue and become profitable depends upon our ability to successfully commercialize products. Any inability on our part to successfully commercialize Rubraca in the United States and any foreign territories where it may be approved, or any significant delay in such approvals, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to execute upon our business strategy and, ultimately, to generate sufficient revenues from Rubraca to reach or maintain profitability or sustain our anticipated levels of operations. Research and development expenses consist of costs incurred for the development of our product candidates and companion diagnostics, which include: ·license fees and milestone payments related to the acquisition of in-licensed products, which are reported on our Consolidated Statements of Operations as acquired in-process research and development; license fees and milestone payments related to the acquisition of in-licensed products, which are reported on our Consolidated Statements of Operations as acquired in-process research and development; ·employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation expense; employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation expense; ·expenses incurred under agreements with contract research organizations (“CROs”) and investigative sites that conduct our clinical trials; expenses incurred under agreements with contract research organizations (“CROs”) and investigative sites that conduct our clinical trials; ·the cost of acquiring, developing and manufacturing clinical trial materials; the cost of acquiring, developing and manufacturing clinical trial materials; ·costs associated with non-clinical activities and regulatory operations; costs associated with non-clinical activities and regulatory operations; ·market research, disease education and other commercial product planning activities, including the hiring of a U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organization in preparation for commercial launch of rucaparib; and market research, disease education and other commercial product planning activities, including the hiring of a U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organization in preparation for commercial launch of rucaparib; and ·activities associated with the development of companion diagnostics for our product candidates. activities associated with the development of companion diagnostics for our product candidates. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. License fees and milestone payments related to in-licensed products and technology are expensed if it is determined that they have no alternative future use. Costs for certain development activities, such as clinical trials and manufacturing of clinical supply, are recognized based on an evaluation of the progress to completion of specific tasks using data such as patient enrollment, clinical site activations or information provided to us by our vendors. As a result of the FDA approval of Rubraca and the discontinuation of enrollment in rociletinib, our research and development expenses will decrease for 2017 as we continue to commercialize Rubraca and commercialization related expenses are classified as selling, general and administrative expenses and not research and development costs. The following table identifies research and development and acquired in-process research and development costs on a program-specific basis for our products under development. Personnel-related costs, depreciation and share-based compensation are not allocated to specific programs, as they are deployed across multiple projects under development and, as such, are separately classified as personnel and other expenses in the table below.Year Ended December 31,201620152014(in thousands)Rucaparib ExpensesResearch and development$101,598$58,922$35,010Acquired in-process R&D1,300—400Rucaparib Total102,89858,92235,410Lucitanib ExpensesResearch and development (a)(1,337)1,923(491)Acquired in-process R&D——3,406Lucitanib Total(1,337)1,9232,915Rociletinib ExpensesResearch and development43,768122,91269,920Acquired in-process R&D—12,0005,000Rociletinib Total43,768134,91274,920Personnel and other expenses107,10085,49433,266Total$252,429$281,251$146,511(a)This amount reflects actual costs incurred less amounts due from Servier for reimbursable development expenses pursuant to the collaboration and license agreement described in Note 11,License Agreements,to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Research and development expenses increased significantly from 2014 through 2015 due to the expansion of our clinical development activities for rociletinib and rucaparib. In addition, during 2015, we increased commercial product planning activitiesin anticipation of the potential regulatory approval and commercial launch in the U.S. of rociletinib. These activities included the hiring of our U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organizations. For 2016, research and development expenses decreased compared to 2015 primarily due to decreased development activities for the rociletinib program, partially offset by higher expenses related to the rucaparib program.Selling, General and Administrative ExpensesSelling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of salaries and related costs for personnel in executive, finance, legal, investor relations, human resources and information technology functions. Other general and administrative expenses include facilities expenses, communication expenses, information technology costs, corporate insurance and professional fees for legal, consulting and accounting services. With the FDA approval of Rubraca on December 19, 2016, all sales and marketing expenses associated with Rubraca are included in selling, general and administrative expenses.Effective May 9, 2016, at Mr. Mahaffy’s request, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved his waiver of any annual base salary in excess of $1.00, plus the cost of the employee portion of any premiums to be paid pursuant to any health and welfare benefit plans maintained by us and any tax withholdings related to health and welfare benefits. Such waiver continued in effect until the earliest to occur of (i) the Company entering into a definitive agreement with respect to a transaction that if consummated would constitute a Change in Control (as defined in his Employment Agreement) or the public announcement of a proposal or transaction that if consummated would constitute a Change of Control, (ii) approval by the FDA to commercially distribute, sell or market rucaparib, and (iii) termination of his employment by the Company without Just Cause or by Mr. Mahaffy for Good Reason (each as defined in his Employment Agreement). On December 19, 2016, the FDA approved Rubraca resulting in the discontinuation of Mr. Mahaffy’s waiver. The following table identifies research and development and acquired in-process research and development costs on a program-specific basis for our products under development. Personnel-related costs, depreciation and share-based compensation are not allocated to specific programs, as they are deployed across multiple projects under development and, as such, are separately classified as personnel and other expenses in the table below. (a)This amount reflects actual costs incurred less amounts due from Servier for reimbursable development expenses pursuant to the collaboration and license agreement described in Note 11,License Agreements,to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (a)This amount reflects actual costs incurred less amounts due from Servier for reimbursable development expenses pursuant to the collaboration and license agreement described in Note 11, to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Research and development expenses increased significantly from 2014 through 2015 due to the expansion of our clinical development activities for rociletinib and rucaparib. In addition, during 2015, we increased commercial product planning activitiesin anticipation of the potential regulatory approval and commercial launch in the U.S. of rociletinib. These activities included the hiring of our U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organizations. For 2016, research and development expenses decreased compared to 2015 primarily due to decreased development activities for the rociletinib program, partially offset by higher expenses related to the rucaparib program. Research and development expenses increased significantly from 2014 through 2015 due to the expansion of our clinical development activities for rociletinib and rucaparib. In addition, during 2015, we increased commercial product planning activities in anticipation of the potential regulatory approval and commercial launch in the U.S. of rociletinib. These activities included the hiring of our U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organizations. For 2016, research and development expenses decreased compared to 2015 primarily due to decreased development activities for the rociletinib program, partially offset by higher expenses related to the rucaparib program. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of salaries and related costs for personnel in executive, finance, legal, investor relations, human resources and information technology functions. Other general and administrative expenses include facilities expenses, communication expenses, information technology costs, corporate insurance and professional fees for legal, consulting and accounting services. With the FDA approval of Rubraca on December 19, 2016, all sales and marketing expenses associated with Rubraca are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. Effective May 9, 2016, at Mr. Mahaffy’s request, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved his waiver of any annual base salary in excess of $1.00, plus the cost of the employee portion of any premiums to be paid pursuant to any health and welfare benefit plans maintained by us and any tax withholdings related to health and welfare benefits. Such waiver continued in effect until the earliest to occur of (i) the Company entering into a definitive agreement with respect to a transaction that if consummated would constitute a Change in Control (as defined in his Employment Agreement) or the public announcement of a proposal or transaction that if consummated would constitute a Change of Control, (ii) approval by the FDA to commercially distribute, sell or market rucaparib, and (iii) termination of his employment by the Company without Just Cause or by Mr. Mahaffy for Good Reason (each as defined in his Employment Agreement). On December 19, 2016, the FDA approved Rubraca resulting in the discontinuation of Mr. Mahaffy’s waiver. Acquired In-Process Research and Development ExpensesAcquired in-process research and development expenses consist of upfront payments to acquire a new drug compound, as well as subsequent milestone payments. Acquired in-process research and development payments are immediately expensed provided that the drug has not achieved regulatory approval for marketing and, absent obtaining such approval, has no alternative future use. Once regulatory approval is received, payments to acquire rights, and the related milestone payments, are capitalized and the amortization of such assets recorded to product cost of sales.Impairment of Intangible AssetIn connection with the acquisition of EOS in November 2013, we recorded intangible assets to reflect the fair value of acquired in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) as of the acquisition date. The fair value was established based upon discounted cash flow models using assumptions related to the timing of development, probability of development and regulatory success, sales and commercialization factors and estimated product life. During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $104.5 million impairment charge due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. At December 31, 2016, the IPR&D intangible asset recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was zero.Previously, the Company recorded an $89.6 million impairment charge to the IPR&D intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2015.Change in Fair Value of Contingent Purchase ConsiderationIn connection with the acquisition of EOS in November 2013, we also recorded a purchase consideration liability equal to the estimated fair value of future payments that are contingent upon the achievement of various regulatory and sales milestones. Subsequent to the acquisition date, we re-measure contingent consideration arrangements at fair value each reporting period and record changes in fair value to change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration and foreign currency gains (losses) for changes in the foreign currency translation rate on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Changes in fair value are primarily attributed to new information about the likelihood of achieving such milestones and the passage of time. In the absence of new information, changes to fair value reflect only the passage of time as we progress towards the achievement of future milestones.During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $25.5 million reduction in the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration liability due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. At December 31, 2016, the contingent purchase consideration liability recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets remained at zero due to the uncertainty of achieving any of the lucitanib regulatory milestones, and therefore the remote likelihood of future milestone payout amounts to the former EOS shareholders.Other Income and ExpenseOther income and expense is primarily comprised of foreign currency gains and losses resulting from transactions with CROs, investigational sites and contract manufacturers where payments are made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, a significant portion of the contingent purchase consideration liability will be settled in Euro-denominated payments if certain future milestones are achieved and is subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. Other expense also includes interest expense recognized related to our convertible senior notes.Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and EstimatesOur discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, expenses and revenue and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to contingent purchase consideration, the allocation of purchase consideration, intangible asset impairment, clinical trial accruals and share-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Acquired in-process research and development expenses consist of upfront payments to acquire a new drug compound, as well as subsequent milestone payments. Acquired in-process research and development payments are immediately expensed provided that the drug has not achieved regulatory approval for marketing and, absent obtaining such approval, has no alternative future use. Once regulatory approval is received, payments to acquire rights, and the related milestone payments, are capitalized and the amortization of such assets recorded to product cost of sales. In connection with the acquisition of EOS in November 2013, we recorded intangible assets to reflect the fair value of acquired in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) as of the acquisition date. The fair value was established based upon discounted cash flow models using assumptions related to the timing of development, probability of development and regulatory success, sales and commercialization factors and estimated product life. During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $104.5 million impairment charge due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. At December 31, 2016, the IPR&D intangible asset recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was zero.Previously, the Company recorded an $89.6 million impairment charge to the IPR&D intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2015. In connection with the acquisition of EOS in November 2013, we recorded intangible assets to reflect the fair value of acquired in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) as of the acquisition date. The fair value was established based upon discounted cash flow models using assumptions related to the timing of development, probability of development and regulatory success, sales and commercialization factors and estimated product life. During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $104.5 million impairment charge due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. At December 31, 2016, the IPR&D intangible asset recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was zero. Previously, the Company recorded an $89.6 million impairment charge to the IPR&D intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2015. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Purchase Consideration In connection with the acquisition of EOS in November 2013, we also recorded a purchase consideration liability equal to the estimated fair value of future payments that are contingent upon the achievement of various regulatory and sales milestones. Subsequent to the acquisition date, we re-measure contingent consideration arrangements at fair value each reporting period and record changes in fair value to change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration and foreign currency gains (losses) for changes in the foreign currency translation rate on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Changes in fair value are primarily attributed to new information about the likelihood of achieving such milestones and the passage of time. In the absence of new information, changes to fair value reflect only the passage of time as we progress towards the achievement of future milestones.During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $25.5 million reduction in the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration liability due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. At December 31, 2016, the contingent purchase consideration liability recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets remained at zero due to the uncertainty of achieving any of the lucitanib regulatory milestones, and therefore the remote likelihood of future milestone payout amounts to the former EOS shareholders. In connection with the acquisition of EOS in November 2013, we also recorded a purchase consideration liability equal to the estimated fair value of future payments that are contingent upon the achievement of various regulatory and sales milestones. Subsequent to the acquisition date, we re-measure contingent consideration arrangements at fair value each reporting period and record changes in fair value to change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration and foreign currency gains (losses) for changes in the foreign currency translation rate on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Changes in fair value are primarily attributed to new information about the likelihood of achieving such milestones and the passage of time. In the absence of new information, changes to fair value reflect only the passage of time as we progress towards the achievement of future milestones. During the second quarter of 2016, we recorded a $25.5 million reduction in the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration liability due to our and our development partner’s decision to discontinue the development of lucitanib for breast cancer. At December 31, 2016, the contingent purchase consideration liability recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets remained at zero due to the uncertainty of achieving any of the lucitanib regulatory milestones, and therefore the remote likelihood of future milestone payout amounts to the former EOS shareholders. Other income and expense is primarily comprised of foreign currency gains and losses resulting from transactions with CROs, investigational sites and contract manufacturers where payments are made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, a significant portion of the contingent purchase consideration liability will be settled in Euro-denominated payments if certain future milestones are achieved and is subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. Other expense also includes interest expense recognized related to our convertible senior notes. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, expenses and revenue and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to contingent purchase consideration, the allocation of purchase consideration, intangible asset impairment, clinical trial accruals and share-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe the following accounting policies to be most critical to the judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements.Accrued Research and Development ExpensesAs part of the process of preparing our financial statements, we are required to estimate our accrued expenses. This process involves reviewing open contracts and purchase orders, communicating with our personnel to identify services that have been performed on our behalf and estimating the level of service performed and the associated cost incurred for the service when we have not yet been invoiced or otherwise notified of the actual cost. The majority of our service providers invoice us monthly in arrears for services performed or when contractual milestones are met. We make estimates of our accrued expenses as of each balance sheet date in our financial statements based on facts and circumstances known to us at that time. We periodically confirm the accuracy of our estimates with the service providers and make adjustments if necessary. Examples of estimated accrued research and development expenses include:·fees paid to CROs in connection with clinical studies;·fees paid to investigative sites in connection with clinical studies;·fees paid to vendors in connection with non-clinical development activities;·fees paid to vendors associated with the development of companion diagnostics; and·fees paid to vendors related to product manufacturing, development and distribution of clinical supplies.We base our expenses related to clinical studies on our estimates of the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with multiple CROs that conduct and manage clinical studies on our behalf. The financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation, vary from contract to contract and may result in uneven payment flows. There may be instances in which payments made to our vendors will exceed the level of services provided and result in a prepayment of the clinical expense. Payments under some of these contracts depend on factors such as the successful enrollment of patients and the completion of clinical trial milestones. In accruing service fees, we estimate the time period over which services will be performed, enrollment of patients, number of sites activated and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from our estimate, we adjust the accrual or prepaid accordingly. Although we do not expect our estimates to be materially different from amounts actually incurred, our understanding of the status and timing of services performed relative to the actual status and timing of services performed may vary and may result in us reporting amounts that are too high or too low in any particular period. Based on the amount of accrued research and development expenses as of December 31, 2016, if our estimates of our net accrued liabilities are too high or too low by 5%, this could increase or decrease our research and development expenses by approximately $1.8 million.Share-Based CompensationDetermining the amount of share-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates of the fair value of stock options as of their grant date. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period of the award. Calculating the fair value of share-based awards requires that we make highly subjective assumptions. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to value our stock option awards. Use of this valuation methodology requires that we make assumptions as to the expected dividend yield, price volatility of our common stock, the risk-free interest rate for a period that approximates the expected term of our stock options and the expected term of our stock options. We utilize a dividend yield of zero based on the fact that we have never paid cash dividends and have no current intention to pay cash dividends. Our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe the following accounting policies to be most critical to the judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. As part of the process of preparing our financial statements, we are required to estimate our accrued expenses. This process involves reviewing open contracts and purchase orders, communicating with our personnel to identify services that have been performed on our behalf and estimating the level of service performed and the associated cost incurred for the service when we have not yet been invoiced or otherwise notified of the actual cost. The majority of our service providers invoice us monthly in arrears for services performed or when contractual milestones are met. We make estimates of our accrued expenses as of each balance sheet date in our financial statements based on facts and circumstances known to us at that time. We periodically confirm the accuracy of our estimates with the service providers and make adjustments if necessary. Examples of estimated accrued research and development expenses include: ·fees paid to CROs in connection with clinical studies; fees paid to CROs in connection with clinical studies; ·fees paid to investigative sites in connection with clinical studies; fees paid to investigative sites in connection with clinical studies; ·fees paid to vendors in connection with non-clinical development activities; fees paid to vendors in connection with non-clinical development activities; ·fees paid to vendors associated with the development of companion diagnostics; and fees paid to vendors associated with the development of companion diagnostics; and ·fees paid to vendors related to product manufacturing, development and distribution of clinical supplies. fees paid to vendors related to product manufacturing, development and distribution of clinical supplies. We base our expenses related to clinical studies on our estimates of the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with multiple CROs that conduct and manage clinical studies on our behalf. The financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation, vary from contract to contract and may result in uneven payment flows. There may be instances in which payments made to our vendors will exceed the level of services provided and result in a prepayment of the clinical expense. Payments under some of these