You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our financial statements and related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read the “Risk Factors” section of this report for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on acquiring, developing and commercializing innovative anti-cancer agents in the United States, Europe and other international markets. We generally target our development programs for the treatment of specific subsets of cancer populations and seek to simultaneously develop, with partners, companion diagnostics that direct our product candidates to the patients that are most likely to benefit from their use. We are currently developing three product candidates: ·Rociletinib, an oral epidermal growth factor receptor (“EGFR”), mutant-selective covalent inhibitor that is currently under review with the U.S. and E.U. regulatory authorities for the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (“NSCLC”) in patients with activating EGFR mutations, as well as the dominant resistance mutation, T790M; Rociletinib, an oral epidermal growth factor receptor (“EGFR”), mutant-selective covalent inhibitor that is currently under review with the U.S. and E.U. regulatory authorities for the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (“NSCLC”) in patients with activating EGFR mutations, as well as the dominant resistance mutation, T790M; , an oral epidermal growth factor receptor (“EGFR”), mutant-selective covalent inhibitor that is currently under review with the U.S. and E.U. regulatory authorities for the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (“NSCLC”) in patients with activating EGFR mutations, as well as the dominant resistance mutation, T790M; ·Rucaparib, an oral inhibitor of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (“PARP”) that is currently in advanced clinical development for the treatment of ovarian cancer and for which the first U.S. regulatory application is expected to be submitted for approval during the second quarter of 2016 and the first E.U. regulatory application is expected to be submitted in the second half of 2016; and Rucaparib, an oral inhibitor of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (“PARP”) that is currently in advanced clinical development for the treatment of ovarian cancer and for which the first U.S. regulatory application is expected to be submitted for approval during the second quarter of 2016 and the first E.U. regulatory application is expected to be submitted in the second half of 2016; and , an oral inhibitor of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (“PARP”) that is currently in advanced clinical development for the treatment of ovarian cancer and for which the first U.S. regulatory application is expected to be submitted for approval during the second quarter of 2016 and the first E.U. regulatory application is expected to be submitted in the second half of 2016; and ·Lucitanib, an oral inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase activity of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1-3 (“VEGFR1-3”), platelet-derived growth factor receptors alpha and beta (“PDGFRa/ß”) and fibroblast growth factor receptors 1-3 (“FGFR1-3”) that is currently in Phase II development for the treatment of breast cancer. Lucitanib, an oral inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase activity of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1-3 (“VEGFR1-3”), platelet-derived growth factor receptors alpha and beta (“PDGFRa/ß”) and fibroblast growth factor receptors 1-3 (“FGFR1-3”) that is currently in Phase II development for the treatment of breast cancer. , an oral inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase activity of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1-3 (“VEGFR1-3”), platelet-derived growth factor receptors alpha and beta (“PDGFR /ß”) and fibroblast growth factor receptors 1-3 (“FGFR1-3”) that is currently in Phase II development for the treatment of breast cancer. We hold global development and commercialization rights for rociletinib and rucaparib. For lucitanib, we hold development and commercialization rights in the U.S. and Japan and have sublicensed rights to Europe and rest of world markets, excluding China, to Les Laboratoires (“Servier”). We commenced operations in April 2009. To date, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to identifying and in-licensing product candidates, performing development activities with respect to those product candidates and the general and administrative support of these operations. Through December 31, 2015, we have generated $13.6 million in license and milestone revenue related to our collaboration and license agreement with Servier, but have generated no product revenues. We have principally funded our operations using the net proceeds from the sale of convertible preferred stock, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, public offerings of our common stock and our convertible senior notes offering. We have never been profitable and, as of December 31, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of $781.9 million. We incurred net losses of $352.9 million, $160.0 million and $84.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and had cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities totaling $528.6 million at December 31, 2015. We expect to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, as we advance our product candidates through clinical development to seek regulatory approval and, if approved, commercialize such product candidates. Based on our current estimates, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities will allow us to fund activities through the next 12 months; however, we expect that we will need to raise capital during 2016 in order to fully implement our business plan to further the development and commercialization of our product candidates, as well as to fund our other operating expenses, milestone payments to licensors and capital expenditures. We expect to finance future cash needs through a combination of public or private equity or debt offerings, collaborations, strategic alliances or other similar licensing arrangements. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability, and we may never do so. In July 2015, the Company sold 4,054,487 shares of its common stock in a public offering at $78.00 per share. The net proceeds to the Company from the offering were $298.5 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. In July 2015, the Company submitted a New Drug Application (“NDA”) regulatory filing and a Marketing Authorization Application (“MAA”) for rociletinib to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”), respectively. Both the FDA and EMA subsequently accepted the respective filings, and they are currently under active review. In December 2015, the FDA extended the Prescription Drug User Fee Act goal date for the rociletinib NDA by three months to June 28, 2016 to allow additional time for review of additional clinical data submitted by the Company in a Major Amendment in November 2015. The FDA has scheduled the NDA for rociletinib for discussion by the Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee (“ODAC”) on April 12, 2016. The ODAC reviews and evaluates data concerning the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug products used in the treatment of cancer and makes recommendations to the FDA. In May 2010, we entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with Avila Therapeutics, Inc. (now Celgene Avilomics Research Inc., part of Celgene Corporation (“Celgene”)) to discover, develop and commercialize a covalent inhibitor of mutant forms of the EGFR gene product. As a result of the collaboration contemplated by the agreement, rociletinib was identified as the lead inhibitor candidate, which we are developing under the terms of the license agreement. Under the agreement, we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize rociletinib, and we are responsible for all non-clinical, clinical, regulatory and other activities necessary to develop and commercialize rociletinib. We made an upfront payment of $2.0 million upon execution of the license agreement, a $4.0 million milestone payment in the first quarter of 2012 upon the acceptance by the FDA of our Investigational New Drug (“IND”) application for rociletinib and a $5.0 million milestone payment in the first quarter of 2014 upon the initiation of the Phase II study for rociletinib. In the third quarter of 2015, we made milestone payments totaling $12.0 million upon acceptance of the NDA and MAA for rociletinib by the FDA and EMA, respectively. We recognized all payments prior to commercial approval as acquired in-process research and development expense. When and if commercial sales of rociletinib commence, we will pay Celgene tiered royalties at percentage rates ranging from mid-single digits to low teens based on annual net sales achieved. We are required to pay up to an additional aggregate of $98.0 million in development and regulatory milestone payments if certain clinical study objectives and regulatory filings, acceptances and approvals are achieved, including $15.0 million upon the first approval of an NDA by the FDA and $15.0 million upon the first approval of an MAA by the EMA. In addition, we are required to pay up to an aggregate of $120.0 million in sales milestone payments if certain annual sales targets are achieved, the majority of which relate to annual sales targets of $500.0 million and above. In January 2013, the Company entered into an exclusive license agreement with Gatekeeper Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Gatekeeper”) to acquire exclusive rights under patent applications associated with mutant EGFR inhibitors and methods of treatment. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, the Company made an upfront payment of $0.25 million upon execution of the agreement, which was recognized as acquired in-process research and development expense. If rociletinib is approved for commercial sale, the Company will pay royalties to Gatekeeper on future net sales. In June 2011, we entered into a license agreement with Pfizer Inc. to obtain the exclusive global rights to develop and commercialize rucaparib. The exclusive rights are exclusive even as to Pfizer and include the right to grant sublicenses. Under the terms of the license agreement, we made a $7.0 million upfront payment to Pfizer. In April 2014, the Company initiated a pivotal registration study for rucaparib, which resulted in a $0.4 million milestone payment to Pfizer as required by the license agreement. This payment was recognized as acquired in-process research and development expense. We are obligated under the license agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize rucaparib, and we are responsible for all remaining development and commercialization costs for rucaparib. When and if commercial sales of rucaparib begin, we will pay Pfizer tiered royalties at a mid-teen percentage rate on our net sales, with standard provisions for royalty offsets to the extent we need to obtain any rights from third parties to commercialize rucaparib. We are required to make regulatory milestone payments to Pfizer of up to an additional $88.5 million if specified clinical study objectives and regulatory filings, acceptances and approvals are achieved, including $20.75 million associated with the first approval of an NDA by the FDA. In addition, we are obligated to make sales milestone payments to Pfizer if specified annual sales targets for rucaparib are met, the majority of which relate to annual sales targets of $500.0 million and above, which, in the aggregate, could amount to total milestone payments of $170.0 million. In April 2012, the Company entered into a license agreement with AstraZeneca UK Limited to acquire exclusive rights associated with rucaparib under a family of patents and patent applications that claim methods of treating patients with PARP inhibitors in certain indications. The license enables the development and commercialization of rucaparib for the uses claimed by these patents. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, the Company made an upfront payment of $0.25 million upon execution of the agreement, which was recognized as acquired in-process research and development expense. The Company may be required to pay up to an aggregate of $0.7 million in milestone payments if certain regulatory filings, acceptances and approvals are achieved. If approved, AstraZeneca will also receive royalties on any net sales of rucaparib. On November 19, 2013, the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Ethical Oncology Science, S.p.A. (“EOS”) (now known as Clovis Oncology Italy S.r.l.) and gained rights to develop and commercialize lucitanib, an oral, selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor. As further described below, EOS licensed the worldwide rights, excluding China, to develop and commercialize lucitanib from Advenchen Laboratories LLC (“Advenchen”). Subsequently, rights to develop and commercialize lucitanib in markets outside the U.S. and Japan were sublicensed by EOS to Servier in exchange for upfront milestone fees, royalties on sales of lucitanib in the sublicensed territories and research and development funding commitments. In October 2008, EOS entered into an exclusive license agreement with Advenchen to develop and commercialize lucitanib on a global basis, excluding China. If and when commercial sales commence, we are obligated to pay Advenchen tiered royalties at percentage rates in the mid-single digits on net sales of lucitanib, based on the volume of annual net sales achieved. In addition, after giving effect to the first and second amendments to the license agreement, we are required to pay to Advenchen 25% of any consideration, excluding royalties, received by the Company from sublicensees, in lieu of the milestone obligations set forth in the agreement. We are obligated under the agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize at least one product containing lucitanib, and we are also responsible for all remaining development and commercialization costs for lucitanib. In the first quarter of 2014, the Company recognized acquired in-process research and development expense of $3.4 million, which represents 25% of the sublicense agreement consideration of $13.6 million received from Servier upon the end of opposition and appeal of the lucitanib patent by the European Patent Office. In September 2012, EOS entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Servier whereby EOS sublicensed to Servier exclusive rights to develop and commercialize lucitanib in all countries outside of the U.S., Japan and China. In exchange for these rights, EOS received an upfront payment of €45.0 million. We are entitled to receive additional payments upon achievement of specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones up to an additional €90.0 million in the aggregate. In addition, we are entitled to receive sales milestone payments if specified annual sales targets for lucitanib are met, which, in the aggregate, could total €250.0 million. We are also entitled to receive royalties at percentage rates ranging from low to mid-teens on sales of lucitanib by Servier. We, along with Servier, are obligated to use diligent efforts to develop a product containing lucitanib and to carry out the activities delegated to each party under a mutually-agreed global development plan. Servier is responsible for all of the development costs for lucitanib up to €80.0 million, as incurred by each party in connection with global development plan activities. Cumulative global development plan costs in excess of €80.0 million, if any, will be shared equally between the Company and Servier. Based on current estimates, we expect that Servier’s €80.0 million funding commitment will be fulfilled in late 2016 or early 2017, and thereafter, we will share with Servier in future development costs pursuant to a mutually agreed upon global development plan. To date, we have generated $13.6 million in license and milestone revenue related to our collaboration and license agreement with Servier. In the future, we may generate revenue from the sales of product candidates that are currently under review with the U.S. and E.U. regulatory authorities and under development by the Company, as well as from milestone payments or royalties pursuant to our sublicense agreement with Servier. If we fail to successfully complete the regulatory review and development of our product candidates and, together with our partners, companion diagnostics or obtain regulatory approval for them, our ability to generate future revenue, and our results of operations and financial position, will be adversely affected. Research and development expenses consist of costs incurred for the development of our product candidates and companion diagnostics, which include: ·license fees and milestone payments related to the acquisition of in-licensed products, which are reported on our Consolidated Statements of Operations as acquired in-process research and development; license fees and milestone payments related to the acquisition of in-licensed products, which are reported on our Consolidated Statements of Operations as acquired in-process research and development; ·employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation expense; employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation expense; ·expenses incurred under agreements with contract research organizations (“CROs”) and investigative sites that conduct our clinical trials; expenses incurred under agreements with contract research organizations (“CROs”) and investigative sites that conduct our clinical trials; ·the cost of acquiring, developing and manufacturing clinical trial materials; the cost of acquiring, developing and manufacturing clinical trial materials; ·costs associated with non-clinical activities and regulatory operations; costs associated with non-clinical activities and regulatory operations; ·market research, disease education and other commercial product planning activities, including the hiring of a U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organization in preparation for potential commercial launch; and market research, disease education and other commercial product planning activities, including the hiring of a U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organization in preparation for potential commercial launch; and market research, disease education and other commercial product planning activities , including the hiring of a U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organization in preparation for potential commercial launch ·activities associated with the development of companion diagnostics for our product candidates. activities associated with the development of companion diagnostics for our product candidates. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. License fees and milestone payments related to in-licensed products and technology are expensed if it is determined that they have no alternative future use. Costs for certain development activities, such as clinical trials and manufacturing of clinical supply, are recognized based on an evaluation of the progress to completion of specific tasks using data such as patient enrollment, clinical site activations or information provided to us by our vendors. Product candidates in later stages of clinical development generally have higher development costs than those in earlier stages of clinical development, primarily due to the increased size and duration of later stage clinical trials. We plan to increase our research and development expenses for the foreseeable future as we seek to expand our clinical and companion diagnostic development activities for our product candidates. The following table identifies research and development and acquired in-process research and development costs on a program-specific basis for our products under development. Personnel-related costs, depreciation and share-based compensation are not allocated to specific programs, as they are deployed across multiple projects under development and, as such, are separately classified as personnel and other expenses in the table below. Year Ended December 31,201520142013(in thousands)Rociletinib ExpensesResearch and development$122,912$69,920$17,020Acquired in-process R&D12,0005,000250Rociletinib Total134,91274,92017,270Rucaparib ExpensesResearch and development58,92235,01024,625Acquired in-process R&D—400—Rucaparib Total58,92235,41024,625Lucitanib ExpensesResearch and development (a)1,923(491)110Acquired in-process R&D—3,406—Lucitanib Total1,9232,915110CO-101 ExpensesResearch and development (b)——795CO-101 Total——795cKIT Inhibitor ExpensesResearch and development (c)——4,373cKIT Inhibitor Total——4,373Personnel and other expenses85,49433,26619,622Total$281,251$146,511$66,795 (a)This amount reflects actual costs incurred less amounts due from Servier for reimbursable development expenses pursuant to the collaboration and license agreement described in Note 12 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This amount reflects actual costs incurred less amounts due from Servier for reimbursable development expenses pursuant to the collaboration and license agreement described in Note 12 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (b)In November 2009, the Company entered into a license agreement with Clavis Pharma ASA to develop and commercialize CO-101. In November 2012, the Company ceased development of CO-101 due to negative results from a pivotal study and terminated the license agreement. In November 2009, the Company entered into a license agreement with Clavis Pharma ASA to develop and commercialize CO-101. In November 2012, the Company ceased development of CO-101 due to negative results from a pivotal study and terminated the license agreement. (c)In July 2012, the Company entered into a drug discovery collaboration agreement with Array BioPharma Inc. for the discovery of a novel cKIT inhibitor targeting resistance mutations for the treatment of GIST, a gastrointestinal cancer. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company was responsible for funding all costs of the discovery program, as well as costs to develop and commercialize any clinical candidates discovered. This drug discovery program did not identify a compound to be used in further development activities, and the program was terminated in the fourth quarter of 2013. In July 2012, the Company entered into a drug discovery collaboration agreement with Array BioPharma Inc. for the discovery of a novel cKIT inhibitor targeting resistance mutations for the treatment of GIST, a gastrointestinal cancer. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company was responsible for funding all costs of the discovery program, as well as costs to develop and commercialize any clinical candidates discovered. This drug discovery program did not identify a compound to be used in further development activities, and the program was terminated in the fourth quarter of 2013. Research and development expenses increased significantly from 2013 through 2015 due to the expansion of ourclinical development activities for rociletinib and rucaparib. In addition, during 2015, we increased commercial product planning activitiesin anticipation ofthepotential regulatory approval and commercial launch in the U.S. of rociletinib. These activitiesincluded the hiring of our U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organizations. For 2016, we do not expect research and development expenses to increase over 2015 as they have for the previoustwoyears, butwe expect such costs to remainconsistent with 2015expenses. Research and development expenses increased significantly from 2013 through 2015 due to the expansion of our clinical development activities for rociletinib and rucaparib. In addition, during 2015, we increased commercial product planning activities potential regulatory approval and commercial launch in the U.S. of ro included the hiring of our U.S. sales a . For 2016, we do not expect research and development expenses to increase over 20 General and administrative expenses consist principally of salaries, share-based compensation expense and other personnel-related costs for employees in executive, finance, legal, investor relations, human resources and information technology functions. Other general and administrative expenses include facilities expenses, communication expenses, information technology costs, corporate insurance and professional fees for legal, consulting and accounting services. Acquired in-process research and development expenses consist of upfront payments to acquire a new drug compound, as well as subsequent milestone payments. Acquired in-process research and development payments are immediately expensed provided that the drug has not achieved regulatory approval for marketing and, absent obtaining such, approval, has no alternative future use. In connection with the acquisition of EOS, we recorded intangible assets to reflect the fair value of acquired in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) as of the acquisition date. The fair value was established based upon discounted cash flow models using assumptions related to the timing of development, probability of development and regulatory success, sales and commercialization factors and estimated product life. The IPR&D intangible assets are treated as indefinite-lived intangible assets and are not amortized. Amortization of these assets will commence upon completion of the related research and development activities. IPR&D intangible assets are evaluated for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators exist and any reduction in fair value would be recorded as impairment of intangible asset on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company recorded an $89.6 million impairment charge to the IPR&D intangible asset as the result of the Company’s and our development partner’s decision to terminate the development of lucitanib for lung cancer, as well as updates to the probability-weighted discounted cash flow assumptions for the breast cancer indication. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Purchase Consideration In connection with the acquisition of EOS, we also recorded a purchase consideration liability equal to the estimated fair value of future payments that are contingent upon the achievement of various regulatory and sales milestones. Subsequent to the acquisition date, we re-measure contingent consideration arrangements at fair value each reporting period and record changes in fair value to change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration and foreign currency gains (losses) for changes in the foreign currency translation rate on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Changes in fair value are primarily attributed to new information about the likelihood of achieving such milestones and the passage of time. In the absence of new information, changes to fair value reflect only the passage of time as we progress towards the achievement of future milestones. During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company recorded a $26.9 million reduction in the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration liability due to a change in the estimated probability-weighted future milestone payments, as well as the timing of such payments, for the lucitanib program. Other income and expense is primarily comprised of foreign currency gains and losses resulting from transactions with CROs, investigational sites and contract manufacturers where payments are made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, a significant portion of the contingent purchase consideration liability will be settled in Euro-denominated payments if certain future milestones are achieved and is subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. Other expense also includes interest expense recognized related to the Company’s convertible senior notes. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, expenses and revenue and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to contingent purchase consideration, the allocation of purchase consideration, intangible asset impairment, clinical trial accruals and share-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe the following accounting policies to be most critical to the judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. As part of the process of preparing our financial statements, we are required to estimate our accrued expenses. This process involves reviewing open contracts and purchase orders, communicating with our personnel to identify services that have been performed on our behalf and estimating the level of service performed and the associated cost incurred for the service when we have not yet been invoiced or otherwise notified of the actual cost. The majority of our service providers invoice us monthly in arrears for services performed or when contractual milestones are met. We make estimates of our accrued expenses as of each balance sheet date in our financial statements based on facts and circumstances known to us at that time. We periodically confirm the accuracy of our estimates with the service providers and make adjustments if necessary. Examples of estimated accrued research and development expenses include: ·fees paid to CROs in connection with clinical studies; fees paid to CROs in connection with clinical studies; ·fees paid to investigative sites in connection with clinical studies; fees paid to investigative sites in connection with clinical studies; ·fees paid to vendors in connection with non-clinical development activities; fees paid to vendors in connection with non-clinical development activities; ·fees paid to vendors associated with the development of companion diagnostics; and fees paid to vendors associated with the development of companion diagnostics; and ·fees paid to vendors related to product manufacturing, development and distribution of clinical supplies. fees paid to vendors related to product manufacturing, development and distribution of clinical supplies. We base our expenses related to clinical studies on our estimates of the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with multiple CROs that conduct and manage clinical studies on our behalf. The financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation, vary from contract to contract and may result in uneven payment flows. There may be instances in which payments made to our vendors will exceed the level of services provided and result in a prepayment of the clinical expense. Payments under some of these contracts depend on factors such as the successful enrollment of patients and the completion of clinical trial milestones. In accruing service fees, we estimate the time period over which services will be performed, enrollment of patients, number of sites activated and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from our estimate, we adjust the accrual or prepaid accordingly. Although we do not expect our estimates to be materially different from amounts actually incurred, our understanding of the status and timing of services performed relative to the actual status and timing of services performed may vary and may result in us reporting amounts that are too high or too low in any particular period. Based on the amount of accrued research and development expenses as of December 31, 2015, if our estimates of our net accrued liabilities are too high or too low by 5%, this could increase or decrease our research and development expenses by approximately $2.7 million. Determining the amount of share-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates of the fair value of stock options as of their grant date. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period of the award. Calculating the fair value of share-based awards requires that we make highly subjective assumptions. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to value our stock option awards. Use of this valuation methodology requires that we make assumptions as to the expected dividend yield, price volatility of our common stock, the risk-free interest rate for a period that approximates the expected term of our stock options and the expected term of our stock options. We utilize a dividend yield of zero based on the fact that we have never paid cash dividends and have no current intention to pay cash dividends. The fair value of stock options for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014and 2013was estimated at the grant date using the following weighted average assumptions for the respective periods: The fair value of stock options for the years ended December 31, 201 rant date using the following weighted average assumptions for the respective periods: (a)Volatility: The expected volatility was estimated using peer data of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry with similar equity plans. Volatility: The expected volatility was estimated using peer data of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry with similar equity plans. (b)Risk-free interest rate: The rate is based on the yield on the grant date of a zero-coupon U.S. Treasury bond whose maturity period approximates the option’s expected term. Risk-free interest rate: The rate is based on the yield on the grant date of a zero-coupon U.S. Treasury bond whose maturity period approximates the option’s expected term. (c)Expected term: The expected term of the award was estimated using peer data of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry with similar equity plans. Expected term: The expected term of the award was estimated using peer data of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry with similar equity plans. We recognized share-based compensation expense of approximately $40.4 million, $21.5 million and $9.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. As of December 31, 2015, we had $88.6 million in total unrecognized share-based compensation expense, net of related forfeiture estimates, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average remaining vesting period of 2.7 years. We expect our share-based compensation to continue to grow in future periods due to the potential increases in the value of our common stock and headcount. We are required to estimate the level of forfeitures expected to occur and record compensation expense only for those awards that we ultimately expect will vest. Due to the lack of historical forfeiture activity of our plan, we estimated our forfeiture rate based on peer company data with characteristics similar to our company. Valuation of Contingent Consideration Resulting from a Business Combination Contingent consideration resulting from a business combination is reported at its fair value on the acquisition date. Each subsequent reporting period, the contingent consideration obligations are revalued and changes in fair value are recorded to change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration and foreign currency gains (losses) for changes in the foreign currency translation rate on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Changes to contingent consideration obligations can result from adjustments to discount rates and time periods, updates in the assumed achievement or timing of any development milestone or changes in the probability of certain clinical events and regulatory approvals. The assumptions related to determining the value of contingent consideration require significant judgment and changes to the assumptions may have a material impact on the amount of expense recorded in any given period. The acquisition of EOS resulted in the recognition of a contingent consideration liability, based on assumptions related to potential future payout amounts, estimated discount rate, probability of success for each milestone achievement and the estimated timing of the milestone payments to the former EOS shareholders. The IPR&D intangible assets are treated as indefinite-lived intangible assets and are not amortized. Amortization of these assets will commence upon completion of the related research and development activities. IPR&D intangible assets are evaluated for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently if impairment indicators exist and any reduction in fair value would be recorded as impairment of intangible asset on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Revenue is recognized from milestone payments when the following criteria have been met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) the price is fixed or determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. We exercise judgment in determining that collectability is reasonably assured or that services have been delivered in accordance with the arrangement. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess collectability based primarily on the customer’s payment history and creditworthiness of the customer. Payments that are contingent upon the achievement of a milestone will be recognized in the period in which the milestone is achieved. Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013: License and Milestone Revenue.License and milestone revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 was due to the recognition of $13.6 million of milestone revenue from Servier upon the end of opposition and appeal of the lucitanib patent by the European Patent Office in the first quarter of 2014. We did not recognize any revenue in 2015 and 2013. License and milestone revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 was due to the recognition of $13.6 million of milestone revenue from Servier upon the end of opposition and appeal of the lucitanib patent by the European Patent Office in the first quarter of 2014. We did not recognize any revenue in 2015 and 2013. Research and Development Expenses.Research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: The increase in research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to increased development activities for the rociletinib and rucaparib programs. Costs associated with non-clinical and clinical development activities for rociletinib were $35.6 million higher than 2014 driven by increased patient enrollment in the TIGER program of studies in NSCLC. In addition, market research, disease education and other commercial product planning activities for rociletinib were $18.2 million higher in 2015 due to the preparation for the potential commercial launch of rociletinib. Clinical trial costs for rucaparib were $10.3 million higher than the prior year primarily due to higher enrollment in the ARIEL2 and ARIEL3 studies in ovarian cancer, as well as the expansion of Study 010 in 2015. Development costs for rucaparib were $5.9 million higher than 2014 due to the advancement of our collaboration with Foundation Medicine, Inc. to develop a novel companion diagnostic test to identify patients most likely to respond to rucaparib. Clinical supply and related manufacturing development costs for both programs were $3.2 million higher than 2014, as we increased production to support the expanded clinical studies. Salaries, share-based compensation expense and other personnel-related costs were $49.4 million higher in 2015, including a $15.8 million increase in share-based compensation expense, driven by increased headcount to support our expanded development and commercial planning activities. During 2015, we completed the hiring of our U.S. sales and marketing and medical affairs organizations in preparation for the potential commercial launch of rociletinib. The increase in research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily due to expanded development activities for the rociletinib and rucaparib programs. Costs associated with non-clinical and clinical development activities for rociletinib were $29.4 million higher than 2013 driven by higher enrollment in the ongoing Phase I/II study in NSCLC, as well as the initiation of the TIGER-1, TIGER-2 and Japanese Phase I studies in 2014. Clinical trial costs for rucaparib were $11.8 million higher than the prior year primarily due to the initiation of the ARIEL2 and ARIEL3 studies in ovarian cancer. Development costs for rucaparib were $3.4 million higher than 2013 due to the expansion of our collaboration with Foundation Medicine, Inc. to incorporate a coordinated regulatory strategy for the development of a novel companion diagnostic test. Clinical supply and related manufacturing development costs for both programs were $13.8 million higher than 2013, as we increased production to support expanded clinical studies. In addition, salaries, share-based compensation expense and other personnel related costs were $13.2 million higher in 2014 driven by higher headcount to support our expanded development activities. These increases were partially offset by $4.4 million lower costs due to the termination of the cKIT program in late 2013. General and Administrative Expenses.General and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: General and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: The increase in general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015over 2014was primarilydueto$3.0millionhighershare-based compensation expense,$1.4 million higher facilities expense, $1.2million higher personnel costs,$1.1 million higher legal expenseand$1.0 million higher consulting fees. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 201 The increase in general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 over 2013 was primarily due to $4.8 million higher share-based compensation expense. Acquired In-Process Research and Development Expenses.Acquired in-process research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Acquired in-process research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Year Ended December 31,201520142013(in thousands)Acquired in-process research and development$12,000$8,806$250Increase (decrease) from prior year$3,194$8,556$(4,000)% Change from prior year36.3%3,422.4%(94.1)% The increase in acquired in-process research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 2014 was due to higher payments made to partners related to in-licensing agreements. During the third quarter of 2015, we made milestone payments totaling $12.0 million to Celgene upon acceptance of the NDA and MAA for rociletinib by the FDA and EMA, respectively. During the first quarter of 2014, we made a $5.0 million milestone payment to Celgene upon initiation of the Phase II study for rociletinib, and we recorded a $3.4 million charge for a milestone payment to Advenchen, representing 25% of the sublicense agreement consideration of $13.6 million received from Servier upon the end of opposition and appeal of the lucitanib patent by the European Patent Office. During the second quarter of 2014, we also made a $0.4 million milestone payment to Pfizer upon initiation of a pivotal registration study for rucaparib. The increase in acquired in-process research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 2013 was also due to higher payments made to partners related to in-licensing agreements. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we made $8.8 million in milestone payments, as detailed above. In January 2013, we made a $0.25 million upfront payment to Gatekeeper upon execution of the license agreement. Impairment of Intangible Asset.During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company recorded an $89.6 million impairment charge to the IPR&D intangible asset relating to our lucitanib product candidate. This reduction in the estimated fair value of lucitanib was the result of the Company’s and its development partner’s decision to terminate the development of lucitanib for lung cancer, as well as updates to the probability-weighted discounted cash flow assumptions for the breast cancer indication. During the first quarter of 2014, the Company recorded a $3.4 million reduction to the intangible asset’s expected future cash flows resulting from the receipt of a lucitanib milestone payment from Servier. During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company recorded an $89.6 million impairment charge to the IPR&D intangible asset relating to our lucitanib product candidate. This reduction in the estimated fair value of lucitanib was the result of the Company’s and its development partner’s decision to terminate the development of lucitanib for lung cancer, as well as updates to the probability-weighted discounted cash flow assumptions for the breast cancer indication. During the first quarter of 2014, the Company recorded a $3.4 million reduction to the intangible asset’s expected future cash flows resulting from the receipt of a lucitanib milestone payment from Servier. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Purchase Consideration.Change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration totaled ($24.6) million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $0.7 million in 2014. During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company recorded a $26.9 million reduction in the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration liability due to a change in the estimated probability-weighted future milestone payments, as well as the timing of such payments, for the lucitanib program. Change in fair value of contingent purchase consideration totaled ($24.6) million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $0.7 million in 2014. During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company recorded a $26.9 million reduction in the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration liability due to a change in the estimated probability-weighted future milestone payments, as well as the timing of such payments, for the lucitanib program. Other Income (Expense), Net.Other income (expense), net for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was as follows: Other income (expense), net for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was as follows: Other expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to higher interest expense related to the Company’s convertible senior notes issued in September 2014. Other income increased for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 2013 driven by $4.1 million net currency gains primarily due to fluctuations in the foreign currency rate utilized to translate our Euro-denominated contingent purchase consideration liability into U.S. dollars. The net currency gains were partially offset by $2.6 million interest expense related to the Company’s convertible senior notes issued in September 2014. IncomeTaxBenefit (Expense).For the year endedDecember 31,2015, the Company recognized a $29.1million deferred tax benefit primarilyassociated withtheimpairmentof the IPR&D intangible assetsrecordedinthe fourth quarter of2015.For the year ended2014, the Company recognized income tax expense primarily due to recording foreign tax provisions during the first quarter of 2014 related to milestone revenue recognized under the Servier license agreement, partially offset by a deferred tax benefit recognized upon the reduction of the carrying value of the IPR&D intangible assets in the first quarter of 2014. ncome tax expense primarily due to recording foreign tax provisions during the first quarter of 2014 rela ted to milestone revenue recognized under the Servier license agreement, partially offset by a deferred tax benefit recognized upon the reduction of the carrying value of the IPR&D intangible assets in the first quarter of 2014. To date, we have funded our operations through the public offering of our common stock and the private placement of convertible debt securities and preferred stock. As of December 31, 2015, we had cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities totaling $528.6 million. The following table sets forth the primary sources and uses of cash for each of the periods set forth below: Year Ended December 31,201520142013(in thousands)Net cash used in operating activities$(253,066)$(117,051)$(71,712)Net cash used in investing activities(254,578)(2,286)(10,034)Net cash provided by financing activities304,480279,476260,842Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents(757)(690)35Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents$(203,921)$159,449$179,131 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents Net cash used in operating activities for all periods resulted primarily from our net losses adjusted for non-cash charges and changes in components of working capital. Net cash used in operating activities increased $136.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 2014 driven by higher rociletinib and rucaparib research and development costs associated with the expansion of the clinical trials, as well as the preparation for the potential commercial launch of rociletinib, and higher salaries, benefits and personnel-related costs resulting from increased headcount to support the expanded development activities and commercial planning for our product candidates. During the third quarter of 2015, we made milestone payments totaling $12.0 million to Celgene upon acceptance of the NDA and MAA for rociletinib by the FDA and EMA, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we also paid $7.3 million in interest related to the convertible senior notes. The net loss for the year ended December 31, 2014 was partially offset by a $13.6 million milestone revenue payment received from Servier. Net cash used in operating activities increased $45.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 2013 driven by higher rociletinib and rucaparib research and development costs associated with the expansion of the clinical trials, drug formulation and manufacturing costs and higher salaries, benefits and personnel-related costs resulting from higher headcount to support the expanded development activities of our product candidates, partially offset by the milestone revenue payment received from Servier. Net cash used in investing activities increased $252.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to net purchases of available-for-sale securities. Net cash used in investing activities decreased $7.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to the cash portion of the EOS acquisition price paid in November 2013, partially offset by higher purchases of property and equipment in 2014. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 includes $298.5 million in net proceeds received from our common stock offering in July 2015 and $6.0 million received from employee stock option exercises and stock purchases under the employee stock purchase plan. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 includes $278.3 million in net proceeds received from our convertible senior notes offering in September 2014 and $1.2 million received from employee stock option exercises and stock purchases under the employee stock purchase plan. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes $259.1 million in net proceeds received from our common stock offering in June 2013 and $1.8 million received from employee stock option exercises and stock purchases under the employee stock purchase plan. Assuming we successfully complete clinical trials and obtain requisite regulatory approvals, we do not anticipate commercializing any of our product candidates until at least the second half of 2016. As such, we anticipate that we will continue to generate significant losses for the foreseeable future as we incur expenses to complete our development activities for each of our programs, prepare for the potential commercial launch of our products and expand our general and administrative functions to support the growth in our research and development and commercial organizations. As of December 31, 2015, we had cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities totaling $528.6 million and total current liabilities of $75.6 million. Based on current estimates, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities will allow us to fund our operating plan through the next 12 months. We expect that we will need to raise additional capital during 2016 in order to fully implement our business plan to further the development and commercialization of our product candidates, as well as to fund our other operating expenses, milestone payments to licensors and capital expenditures. We expect to finance future cash flow needs through the public or private sale of equity or debt securities, collaborations, strategic alliances or other similar licensing arrangements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our product candidates. The sale of additional equity and debt securities may result in additional dilution to our shareholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock and could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. Furthermore, any such required additional capital may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If we were unable to obtain additional financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of, delay or eliminate some or all of our planned development and commercialization activities, which could harm our business. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with research, development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products, we are unable to estimate the exact amounts of our working capital requirements. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: ·the number and characteristics of the product candidates, companion diagnostics and indications we pursue; the number and characteristics of the product candidates, companion diagnostics and indications we pursue; ·the achievement of various development, regulatory and commercial milestones resulting in required payments to partners pursuant to the terms of our license agreements; the achievement of various development, regulatory and commercial milestones resulting in required payments to partners pursuant to the terms of our license agreements; ·the scope, progress, results and costs of researching and developing our product candidates and related companion diagnostics and conducting clinical and non-clinical trials; the scope, progress, results and costs of researching and developing our product candidates and related companion diagnostics and conducting clinical and non-clinical trials; ·the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates and companion diagnostics; the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates and companion diagnostics; ·the cost of commercialization activities, if any, assuming our product candidates are approved for sale, including marketing and distribution costs; the cost of commercialization activities, if any, assuming our product candidates are approved for sale, including marketing and distribution costs; ·the cost of manufacturing any of our product candidates we successfully commercialize; the cost of manufacturing any of our product candidates we successfully commercialize; ·the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims, including litigation costs and outcome of such litigation; and the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims, including litigation costs and outcome of such litigation; and ·the timing, receipt and amount of sales, if any, of our product candidates. the timing, receipt and amount of sales, if any, of our product candidates. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2015 (in thousands): (a)In February 2013, the Company entered into a development and manufacturing agreement with a third-party supplier for the production of the active ingredient for rucaparib. Under this agreement, the Company will provide the third-party supplier a rolling 24-month forecast that will be updated by the Company on a quarterly basis. The Company is obligated to order the quantity specified in the first 12 months of any forecast. In February 2013, the Company entered into a development and manufacturing agreement with a third-party supplier for the production of the active ingredient for rucaparib. Under this agreement, the Company will provide the third-party supplier a rolling 24-month forecast that will be updated by the Company on a quarterly basis. The Company is obligated to order the quantity specified in the first 12 months of any forecast. We have certain obligations under licensing agreements with third parties contingent upon achieving various development, regulatory and commercial milestones. Pursuant to our license agreement for the development and commercialization of rociletinib, we may be required to pay up to an additional aggregate of $98.0 million in regulatory milestone payments if certain clinical study objectives and regulatory filings, acceptance and approvals are achieved. Further, we may be required to pay up to an aggregate of $120.0 million in sales milestone payments if certain annual sales targets are met for rociletinib. Pursuant to our license agreements for the development of rucaparib, we may be required to pay up to an aggregate $258.5 million in milestone payments upon the successful attainment of development, regulatory and sales milestones. We are also obligated to pay to Advenchen 25% of any consideration, excluding royalties, received pursuant to any sublicense agreements for lucitanib, including the agreement with Servier. The Company is obligated to pay additional consideration to the former EOS shareholders if certain future regulatory and lucitanib-related sales milestones are achieved. The estimated fair value of these payments was recorded as contingent purchase consideration on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The potential contingent milestone payments range from a zero payment, which assumes lucitanib fails to achieve any of the regulatory milestones, to $190.5 million ($65.0 million and €115.0 million) if all regulatory and sales milestones are met, utilizing the translation rate at December 31, 2015. The estimated fair value of the liability was $24.7 million at December 31, 2015. Finally, pursuant to terms of each of our product license agreements, we will pay royalties to our licensors on sales, if any, of the respective products. We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under the rules promulgated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. As of December 31, 2015, we have net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $504.8 million to offset future federal income taxes. We also have research and development and orphan drug tax credit carryforwards of $177.7 million to offset future federal income taxes. The federal net operating loss carryforwards and research and development and orphan drug tax credit carryforwards expire at various times through 2035. We believe that a change in ownership as defined under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code occurred as a result of the Company’s public offering of common stock completed in April 2012. Future utilization of the federal net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards accumulated from inception to the change in ownership date will be subject to annual limitations to offset future taxable income. We do not, however, believe this limitation prevents utilization prior to expiration. It is possible that a change in ownership will occur in the future, which will limit the NOL amounts generated since the last estimated change in ownership against future taxable income. At December 31, 2015, we recorded a 100% valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets in the U.S. of approximately $446.9 million and a $2.2 million valuation allowance against tax assets in foreign jurisdictions, as we believe it is more likely than not that the tax benefits will not be fully realized. In the future, if we determine that a portion or all of the tax benefits associated with our tax carryforwards will be realized, net income would increase in the period of determination. In April 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2015-03, “Interest – Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30) – Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs.” ASU No. 2015-03 requires debt issuance costs to be presented as a deduction from the corresponding debt liability rather than as an asset. This update is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, including interim periods within those years. Early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, the guidance must be applied retrospectively to all periods presented in the financial statements. The Company elected to early adopt this standard effective December 31, 2015. Adoption of the standard resulted in the reclassification of the Company’s debt issuance costs from other assets to convertible senior notes on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 2014, the reclassification resulted in a decrease of $8.8 million to other assets with a corresponding decrease to convertible senior notes. InNovember2015, theFASBissuedASU No. 2015-17, “Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes.” ASU No. 2015-17requiresthat all deferred tax assets and liabilities, along with any related valuation allowance, be classified as noncurrent on the balance sheet. This update is effective for fiscal years beginning afterDecember 15, 2016, including interim periods within those years. Early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, the guidancemaybe appliedeither prospectively, for all deferred tax assets and liabilities, orretrospectively to all periods presented in the financial statements. The Companyelected to early adopt the standard effective December 31, 2015. Adoption of the standard was applied retrospectively and resulted in no change to the Company’sConsolidated Balance Sheets. that all deferred tax assets and liabilities, along with any related valuation allowance, be classified as noncurrent on the balance sheet . This update is effective for fiscal years beginning after , including interim periods within those years. Early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, the guidance either prospectively, for all deferred tax assets and liabilities, or retrospectively to all periods presented in the f elected to early adopt the standard effective December 31, 2015. Adoption of the standard was applied retrospectively and resulted in no change to the Company’s In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” ASU 2014-09 specifies the accounting for revenue from contracts with customers and establishes disclosure requirements relating to the nature, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts with customers. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date,” which delayed the effective date of the standard to annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Early application is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods. ASU 2014-09 allows for either full retrospective or modified retrospective adoption. The Company is currently evaluating its planned method of adoption and the impact the standard may have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, “Disclosure of Uncertainties About an Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern,” which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about an entity’s ability to continue as a going concern and to provide disclosures when certain criteria are