ent and future clinical development programs, particularly our PB272 program, are expected to be substantial and to increase, they are subject to many uncertainties, including the results of clinical trials and whether we develop any of our drug candidates with a partner or independently. As a result of such uncertainties, we cannot predict with any significant degree of certainty the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects or whether, when and to what extent we will generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of any of our product candidates. The duration and cost of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project as a result of unanticipated events arising during clinical development and a variety of other factors, including: ●the number of trials and studies in a clinical program; the number of trials and studies in a clinical program; ●the number of patients who participate in the trials; the number of patients who participate in the trials; ●the number of sites included in the trials; the number of sites included in the trials; ●the costs of manufacturing our drug candidates; and the costs of manufacturing our drug candidates; and ●the costs, requirements, timing of, and ability to secure regulatory approvals. the costs, requirements, timing of, and ability to secure regulatory approvals. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized approximately $1.0 million in interest income compared to approximately $0.3 million and $0.2 million of interest income for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The increase in interest income reflects excess cash invested in money market accounts, marketable securities and “high yield” savings accounts for a full year and cash invested from a public offering of our common stock completed in January 2015 (see Note 6 in the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements). In addition to our operating results, as calculated in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures when planning, monitoring, and evaluating our operational performance. The following table presents our net loss and net loss per share, as calculated in accordance with GAAP, as adjusted to remove the impact of employee stock-based compensation. These non-GAAP financial measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for GAAP reporting measures. We believe these non-GAAP measures enhance understanding of our financial performance, are more indicative of our operational performance and facilitate a better comparison among fiscal periods. For the year ended December 31, 2015, stock-based compensation represented approximately 39.5% of our loss from operations, compared to 27.5% and 13.7% for 2014 and 2013, respectively. This cost is related to our employee hiring practice and the fair market value of the stock option grants on the day granted. Reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Loss and GAAP Net Loss Per Share to Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Loss Per Share Reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Loss and GAAP Net Loss Per Share to Non-GAAP Adjusted Ne (in thousands except share and per share data) Years Ended December 31,201520142013GAAP net loss$(239,284)$(141,965)$(54,659)Adjustments:Stock-based compensation -General and administrative17,1669,1542,331(1)Research and development77,76829,9975,188(2)Non-GAAP adjusted net loss$(144,350)$(102,814)$(47,140)GAAP net loss per share - basic and diluted$(7.45)$(4.73)$(1.90)Adjustment to net loss (as detailed above)2.961.300.26Non-GAAP adjusted net loss per share$(4.49)$(3.43)$(1.64)(3)(1) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for General and Administrative Stock-based compensation.(2) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for Research and Development Stock-based compensation.(3) Non-GAAP adjusted net loss per share was calculated based on 32,126,094, 30,010,979, and 28,696,573 weighted average common shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. GAAP net loss per share - basic and diluted (1) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for General and Administrative Stock-based compensation. (2) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for Research and Development Stock-based compensation. (3) Non-GAAP adjusted net loss per share was calculated based on 32,126,094, 30,010,979, and 28,696,573 weighted average common shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. We reported net losses of approximately $239.3 million, $142.0 million, and $54.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We also reported negative cash flows from operating activities of approximately $154.5 million, $77.2 million and $55.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, includes a net loss of $239.3 million adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $94.9 million for stock option expense, build-out allowance of $0.2 million and $0.8 million for depreciation and amortization of property and equipment. Further changes in cash flows from operations include a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $12.0 million, a decrease of $1.8 million in Licensor receivables, and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of approximately $1.0 million. The decrease in accrued expenses reflects a payment of approximately $16.4 million for employee payroll taxes withheld related to the exercise of employee stock options during December 2014, paid in January 2015. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets reflects up-front payments made to various CROs for company-initiated clinical trials, for various insurance policies and the comparator inventory. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, includes a net loss of $142.0 million adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $39.2 million for stock option expense, build-out allowance of $0.2 million and $0.6 million for depreciation and amortization of property and equipment. Further changes in cash flows from operations include an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $25.2 million, a decrease of $8.1 million in Licensor receivables, and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of approximately $8.6 million. The increase in both accounts payable and accrued expenses reflect an increase in clinical trial cost and an accrual of approximately $16.4 million for employee payroll taxes withheld related to the exercise of employee stock options during December 2014. The proceeds from the exercise of the stock options were primarily received in December 2014 while the payments for taxes withheld were made in January 2015. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets reflects up-front payments made to various CROs for company-initiated clinical trials, for various insurance policies and the comparator inventory. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013, includes a net loss of $54.7 million adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $7.5 million for stock option expense and $0.4 million for depreciation and amortization of property and equipment. Further changes in cash flow from operations include a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $2.4 million, a decrease of $0.8 million in Licensor receivables, and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of approximately $6.7 million. At December 31, 2012, we had a large receivable from the Licensor covering costs incurred in the fourth quarter of 2012. The decrease in both accounts payable and accrued expenses reflect the payment of this receivable and subsequent payments for ongoing costs associated with the Licensor-initiated clinical trials. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets reflects up-front payments made to various CROs for company-initiated clinical trials and forvarious insurance policies. payments for ongoing costs associated with the Licensor-initiated clinical trials. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets reflects up-front payments made to various CROs for company-initiated clinical trials and for Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $85.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. A significant portion of this is comprised of cash used for the purchase of available-for-sale securities of approximately $214.8 million offset by the sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities of $133.2 million. Additionally, approximately $3.1 million of net cash used in investing activities was transferred to restricted cash to secure a standby letter of credit for the additional office leases and approximately $1.2 million was used for leasehold improvements and the purchase of property and equipment to support corporate growth. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $63.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. A significant portion of this is comprised of cash used for the purchase of available-for-sale securities of approximately $132.3 million offset by the sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities of $70.3 million. Additionally, approximately $1.3 million of cash used in investing activities was used for leasehold improvements and the purchase of property and equipment to support corporate growth. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $41.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. A significant portion of this is comprised of cash used for the purchase of available-for-sale securities of approximately $49.3 million offset by the sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities of $8.4 million. We invest our excess cash in available-for-sale securities. Additionally, approximately $0.6 million of cash used in investing activities was used for the purchase of property and equipment to support corporate growth. January 2015 Common Stock Offering. On January 27, 2015, we completed an underwritten public offering of 1,150,000 shares of our common stock (including an additional 150,000 shares of our common stock issued and sold pursuant to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at a price of $190.00 per share, less the underwriting discount. The net proceeds received by us were approximately $205.1 million after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated offering expenses payable by us. . On January 27, 2015, we completed an underwritten public offering of 1,150,000 shares of our common stock (including an additional 150,000 shares of our common stock issued and sold pursuant to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at a price of $190.00 per share, less the underwriting discount. The net proceeds received by us were approximately $205.1 million after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated offering expenses payable by us. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2015, $28.2 million was received for employee stock options exercised during 2015. February 2014 Common Stock Offering. On February 14, 2014, we completed an underwritten public offering of 1,126,530 shares of our common stock (including an additional 146,938 shares of our common stock issued and sold pursuant to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at a price of $122.50 per share, less the underwriting discount. The net proceeds received by us were approximately $129.4 million after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated offering expenses payable by us. . On February 14, 2014, we completed an underwritten public offering of 1,126,530 shares of our common stock (including an additional 146,938 shares of our common stock issued and sold pursuant to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at a price of $122.50 per share, less the underwriting discount. The net proceeds received by us were approximately $129.4 million after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated offering expenses payable by us. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2014, $6.5 million was received for employee stock options exercised during 2014. During the year ended December 31, 2013, the cash provided by financing activities was approximately $2.2 million. This represents proceeds we received from employee stock options exercised during 2013. We have incurred negative cash flows from operations since we started our business, and we do not expect to achieve any product revenues for at least the next 12 to 18 months, if ever. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, substantial amounts in connection with implementing our business strategy, including our planned product development efforts, our clinical trials, our R&D efforts and the commencement of commercialization efforts. Given the current and desired pace of clinical development of our product candidates, over the next 12 months we estimate that our R&D spending will be approximately $140 million to $150 million, excluding stock-based compensation. Additionally, we expect increased G&A expenses as we continue to evaluate our options with regard to commercialization efforts. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2015, are sufficient to fund our operations through 2016 and into 2017. However, changes may occur that would consume our available capital faster than anticipated, including changes in and progress of our development activities, the impact of commercialization efforts, acquisitions of additional drug candidates and changes in regulation.We expect to continue incurring significant losses for the foreseeable future and our continuing operations will depend on whether we are able to raise additional funds through additional equity or debt financing or entering into a strategic alliance with a third party concerning one or more of our product candidates. Through December 31, 2015, a significant portion of our financing has been through public offerings and private placements of our equity securities. We will continue to fund operations from cash on hand and marketable securities and through the similar sources of capital previously described. We can give no assurances that any additional capital raised will be sufficient to meet our needs. Further, in light of current economic conditions, including the lack of access to the capital markets being experienced by small companies, particularly in our industry, there can be no assurance that such capital will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds in the future, we may be forced to delay or discontinue the development of one or more of our product candidates and forego attractive business opportunities. Any additional sources of financing will likely involve the sale of our equity securities, which will have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We expect to continue incurring significant losses for the foreseeable future and our continuing operations will depend on whether we are able to raise additional funds through additional equity or debt financing or entering into a strategic alliance w ith a third party concerning one or more of our product candidates. Through De , a significant portion of our financing has been through public offerings and private placements of our equity securities. We will continue to fund operations fro m cash on hand and marketable securities and through the similar sources of capital previously described. We can give no assurances that any additional capital raised will be sufficient to meet our needs. Further, in light of current economic conditions, i ncluding the lack of access to the capital markets being experienced by small companies, particularly in our industry, there can be no assurance that such capital will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional fu nds in the future, we may be forced to delay or discontinue the development of one or more of our product candidates and forego attractive business opportunities. Any additional sources of financing will likely involve the sale of our equity securities, wh ich will have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. In addition, we have based our estimate of the capital needs on assumptions that may prove to be wrong. We may need to obtain additional funds sooner than planned or in greater amounts than we currently anticipate. Potential sources of financing include strategic relationships, public or private sales of equity or debt and other sources of funds. We may seek to access the public or private equity markets when conditions are favorable due to our long-term capital requirements. We do not have any committed sources of financing at this time, and it is uncertain whether additional funding will be available when we need it on terms that will be acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of common stock or other securities convertible into common stock, the ownership interests of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we are not able to obtain financing when needed, we may be unable to carry out our business plan. As a result, we may have to significantly limit our operations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. In such an event, we will be required to undertake a thorough review of our programs, and the opportunities presented by such programs, and allocate our resources in the manner most prudent. We do not have any “off-balance sheet arrangements,” as defined by the SEC regulations. Contractual obligations represent future cash commitments and liabilities under agreements with third parties, and exclude contingent liabilities for which we cannot reasonably predict future payment. Our contractual obligations result from property leases for office space. Although we do have obligations for CRO services, the table below excludes potential payments we may be required to make under our agreements with CROs because timing of payments and actual amounts paid under those agreements may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon terms or amounts for some obligations, and those agreements are cancelable upon written notice by the Company and therefore, not long-term liabilities. The contracts also contain variable costs that are hard to predict as they are based on such things as patients enrolled and clinical trial sites, which can vary and therefore, are also not included in the table below. Additionally, the expected timing of payment of the obligations presented below is estimated based on current information. The following table represents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015, aggregated by type (in thousands): Payments due by PeriodLess thanMore thanContractual ObligationsTotal1 year1 - 3 years3 - 5 years5 yearsOperating Lease Obligations$43,847$2,175$8,073$8,565$25,034Total$43,847$2,175$8,073$8,565$25,034 Our discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities reported in our consolidated financial statements. The estimation process requires assumptions to be made about future events and conditions and, as a result, is inherently subjective and uncertain. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates. The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that are, in management’s view, most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and most demanding of our judgment. We consider the following policies to be critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements and the uncertainties associated with the complex judgments made by us that could impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. an understanding of our consolidated financial statements and the uncerta inties associated with the complex judgments made by us that could impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated over estimated useful lives ranging from three to five years using the straight-line method. Leasehold improvements are recorded at cost and amortized over the shorter of their useful lives or the term of the lease by use of the straight-line method. Maintenance and repair costs are charged to operations as incurred. The Company assesses the impairment of long-lived assets, primarily property and equipment, whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that carrying amounts of the assets may not be fully recoverable. When such events occur, management determines whether there has been an impairment by comparing the asset’s carrying value with its fair value, as measured by the anticipated undiscounted net cash flows of the asset. Should impairment exist, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value. The Company has not recognized any impairment losses through December 31, 2015. R&D expenses are charged to operations as incurred. The major components of R&D costs include clinical manufacturing costs; clinical trial expenses; consulting and other third-party costs; salaries and employee benefits; stock-based compensation expense; supplies and materials; and allocations of various overhead costs. Clinical trial expenses include, but are not limited to, investigator fees, site costs, comparator drug costs, and CRO costs. In the normal course of business, we contract with third parties to perform various clinical trial activities in the ongoing development of potential products. The financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation and variations from contract to contract and may result in uneven payment flows. Payments under the contracts depend on factors such as the achievement of certain events, the successful enrollment of patients and the completion of portions of the clinical trial or similar conditions. Our cost accruals for clinical trials are based on estimates of the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with numerous clinical trial sites, cooperative groups and CROs. The objective of our accrual policy is to match the recording of expenses in our consolidated financial statements to the actual services received and efforts expended. As actual costs become known, we adjust our accruals in that period. In instances where we enter into agreements with third parties for clinical trials and other consulting activities, upfront amounts are recorded as prepaid expenses and expensed as services are performed or as the underlying goods are delivered. If we do not expect the services to be rendered or goods to be delivered, any remaining capitalized amounts for non-refundable upfront payments are charged to expense immediately. Amounts due under such arrangements may be either fixed fee or fee for service, and may include upfront payments, monthly payments and payments upon the completion of milestones or receipt of deliverables. Costs related to the acquisition of technology rights and patents for which development work is still in process are charged to operations as incurred and considered a component of R&D costs. The licensing agreement set a “cap” on the amount of external expenses we would incur, beginning January 1, 2012, in completing the clinical trials transferred from the Licensor to the Company. The license agreement originally stipulated that the Licensor would be responsible for all external expenses associated with the transferred clinical trials and that we would invoice for such costs on a quarterly basis. The Licensor had 60 days to review the invoice and supporting documentation. All amounts reimbursed from the Licensor represent charges for services provided by third parties and not by us. Accordingly, we have elected to treat the reimbursed costs as a “pass-through” expense billable to the Licensor and as an offset to our R&D expenses. Therefore, our R&D expenses are recorded net of any excess cap costs billed to the Licensor. We recognized approximately $16.4 million of excess cap cost billings in the year ended December 31, 2013. The license agreement was amended in July 2014 and made the Company solely responsible for the expenses incurred or accrued in conducting the ongoing legacy clinical trials after December 31, 2013. Pursuant to the amendment to the original license agreement, no reduction in the expenses related to the licensor legacy clinical trials that were in excess of the cap on such expenses set forth in the license agreement was recorded in the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. Accounting Standards Codification 718,Compensation-Stock Compensation, or ASC 718, requires the fair value of all share-based payments to employees, including grants of stock options, to be recognized in the statement of operations over the requisite service period. Under ASC 718, employee option grants are generally valued at the grant date and those valuations do not change once they have been established. The determination of the fair value using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Method is affected by our stock price as well as a number of complex and subjective variables, including expected stock price volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected dividends and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. As allowed by ASC 718 for companies with a short period of publicly traded stock history, our estimate of expected volatility is based on the average expected volatilities of a sampling of sixcompanies with similar attributes to us, including industry, stage of life cycle, size and financial leverage. The sixcompanies are reviewed quarterly as the volatility has the greatest impact on the calculation. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on theU.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant valuation. Option forfeitures are calculated when the option is granted to reduce the option expense to be recognized over the life of the award and updated upon receipt of further information as tothe amount of options expected to be forfeited. The option expense is “trued-up” upon the actual forfeiture of a stock option grant. Due to our limited history, we use the simplified method to determine the expected life of the option grants. service period. Under ASC 718, employee option grants are generally valued at the grant date and those valuations do not change once they have been established. The determination of the fair value usin g the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Method is affected by our stock price as well as a number of complex and subjective variables, including expected stock price volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected dividends and projected employee stock option exe rcise behaviors. As allowed by ASC 718 for companies with a short period of publicly traded stock history, our estimate of expected volatility is based on the average expected volatilities of a sampling of s ding industry, stage of life cycle, size and financial leverage. The s companies are reviewed quarterly as the volatility has the greatest impact on the calculation. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant valuation. Option forfeitures are calculated when the option is granted to reduce the option expense to be recognized over the life of the award and updated upon receipt of further information as to the amount of options expected to be forfeited. The option expense is “trued-up” upon the actual forfeiture of a stock option grant. Due to our limited history, we use the simplified method to determine the expected life of the option grants. The performance shares are valued on the grant date and the fair value of the performance award is equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date. The performance share expense is recognized based on the Company’s estimate of a range of probabilities that the Company’s closing common stock price will be lower or higher than the Company’s common stock price on the grant date on the vesting dates. Based on the range of probabilities, the expense is calculated and recognized over the three-year vesting period. Warrants granted to employees are normally valued at the fair value of the instrument on the grant date and are recognized in the statement of operations over the requisite service period. When the requisite service period precedes the grant date and a market condition exists in the warrant, the Company values the warrant using the Monte Carlo Simulation Method. When the terms of the warrant become fixed, the Company values the warrant using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Method. As allowed by ASC 718 for companies with a short period of publicly traded stock history, the Company’s estimate of expected volatility is based on the average volatilities of a sampling of eight to nine companies with similar attributes to the Company, including industry, stage of life cycle, size and financial leverage. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the warrant is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant valuation. In determining the value, until the terms are fixed the Company factors in the probability of the market condition occurring and several possible scenarios. When the requisite service period precedes the grant date and is deemed to be complete, the Company records the fair value of the warrant at the time of issuance as an equity stock-based compensation transaction. The warrant is revalued each reporting period up to the grant date when the final fair value of the warrant is established and recorded. The grant date is determined when all pertinent information, such as exercise price and quantity are known. InAugust2014,the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB,issued guidance requiring management to evaluate on a regular basis whether any conditions or events have arisen that could raise substantial doubt about the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. The guidance (1) provides a definition for the term “substantial doubt,” (2) requires an evaluation every reporting period, interim periods included, (3) provides principles for considering the mitigating effect of management’s plans to alleviate the substantial doubt, (4)requirescertain disclosures if the substantial doubt is alleviated as a result of management’s plans, (5) requires an express statement, as well as other disclosures, if the substantial doubt is not alleviated, and (6) requires an assessment period of one year from the date the financial statements are issued. The standard is effective for the Company’s reporting year beginning January 1, 2017 and early adoption is permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance for revenue recognition for contracts, superseding the previous revenue recognition requirements, along with most existing industry-specific guidance. The guidance requires an entity to review contracts in five steps: (1) identify the contract, (2) identify performance obligations, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price, and (5) recognize revenue. The new standard will result in enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue arising from contracts with customers. The standard is effective for our reporting year beginning January 1, 2017 and early adoption is not permitted. On July 9, 2015, the FASB voted to defer the effective date of the above mentioned revenue recognition guidance by one year to December 15, 2017 for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after the date and permitted early adoption of the standard, but not before the original effective date of December 15, 2016. The Company is currently evaluating the impact, if any, that this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-10,Development Stage Entities, or ASU No. 2014-10, which eliminated certain financial reporting requirements of companies previously identified as development stage entities ( Topic 915 ). The amendments in this ASU simplify accounting guidance by removing all incremental financial reporting requirements for development stage entities.The amendments also reduce data maintenance and, for those entities subject to audit, audit costs by eliminating the requirement for development stage entities to present inception-to-date information in the statements of income, cash flows, and stockholders’ equity. For public entities, these amendments begin to be effective for periods after December 31, 2014. Early application of each of the amendments is permitted for any annual reporting period or interim period for which the entity’s financial statements have not yet been issued (public business entities) or made available for issuance (other entities). Upon adoption, entities will no longer present or disclose any information required by Topic 915.The Company adopted this standard on December 31,2014, and it did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. this ASU simplify accounting guidance by removing all incremental financial reporting requirements for development stage entities. The amendments also reduce data maintenance and, for those entities subject to audit, audit costs by eliminating the requirement for development stage entities to present inception-to-date information in the statements of income, cash flows, and stockhold ers’ equity. For public entities, these amendments begin to be effective for periods after December 31, 2014. Early application of each of the amendments is permitted for any annual reporting period or interim period for which the entity’s financial stat ements have not yet been issued (public business entities) or made available for issuance (other entities). Upon adoption, entities will no longer present or disclose any information required by Topic 915. The Company adopted this standard on December 31, 2014, and it did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.