Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2016 For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized approximately $1.3 million in interest income compared to approximately $1.0 million of interest income for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase in interest income reflects more cash invested in money market accounts and “high yield” savings accounts for 2017 compared to 2016 (see Note 6 in the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements). For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized approximately $0.7 million in interest expense compared to $0 of interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2016. This increase in interest expense is as a result of the debt financing which closed in October 2017 (see Note 7 in the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements). Year Ended December 31, 2016 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2015 For the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized approximately $1.0 million in interest income compared to approximately $1.0 million of interest income for the years ended December 31, 2015. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we did not recognize interest expense as we did not have any debt financing. In addition to our operating results, as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures when planning, monitoring, and evaluating our operational performance. The following table presents our net loss and net loss per share, as calculated in accordance with GAAP, as adjusted to remove the impact of stock-based compensation. For the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2017, stock-based compensation represented approximately 39.8% and 37.2% of our net loss, respectively. Although net loss is important to measure our financial performance, we currently place an emphasis on cash burn and, more specifically, cash used in operations. Because stock-based compensation appears in GAAP net loss but is removed from net loss to arrive as cash used in operations on the statement of cash flows, due to its non-cash nature, we believe these non-GAAP measures enhance understanding of our financial performance, are more indicative of our operational performance and facilitate a better comparison among fiscal periods. These non-GAAP financial measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for GAAP reporting measures. Reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Loss and GAAP Net Loss Per Share to Non-GAAPAdjusted Net Loss Per Share Reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Loss and GAAP Net Loss Per Share to Non-GAAP (in thousands except share and per share data) For the Year Ended December 31,201720162015GAAP net loss$(291,955)$(276,011)$(239,284)Adjustments:Stock-based compensation -Selling, general and administrative31,19426,62317,166(1)Research and development77,54190,64177,768(2)Non-GAAP adjusted net loss$(183,220)$(158,747)$(144,350)GAAP net loss per share—basic anddiluted$(7.85)$(8.29)$(7.45)Adjustment to net loss (as detailedabove)2.923.522.96Non-GAAP adjusted net loss per share$(4.93)$(4.77)$(4.49)(3)(1) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for selling, general and administrative stock-based compensation.(2) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for research and development stock-based compensation.(3) Non-GAAP adjusted net loss per share was calculated based on 37,169,678, 33,295,114 and 32,126,094 weighted average common shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (1) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for selling, general and administrative stock-based compensation. (2) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for research and development stock-based compensation. (3) Non-GAAP adjusted net loss per share was calculated based on 37,169,678, 33,295,114 and 32,126,094 weighted average common shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We reported net losses of approximately $292.0 million, $276.0 million and $239.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We also reported negative cash flows from operating activities of approximately $172.5 million, $141.7 million and $154.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2017, includes a net loss of $292.0 million adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $108.7 million for stock-based compensation expense, and depreciation of property and equipment and license amortization of approximately $2.8 million. Further changes in cash flows from operations include an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $21.6 million, an increase in accounts receivable of approximately $9.7 million, an increase in inventory of approximately $2.0 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other of approximately $1.1 million and an decrease in the accrued liability for deferred rent of approximately $0.1 million. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2016, includes a net loss of $276.0 million adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $117.3 million for stock-based compensation expense, build-out allowance of approximately $3.0 million, disposal of leasehold improvements of approximately $0.4 million and depreciation and amortization of property and equipment of approximately $1.1 million. Further changes in cash flows from operations include an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $5.0 million, a decrease in prepaid expenses and other of approximately $3.4 million and an increase in the accrued liability for deferred rent of approximately $4.1 million. This increase in accrued liability for deferred rent was due to the amendments to the leases for office space, which became effective in April 2016. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, includes a net loss of $239.3 million, adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $94.9 million for stock-based compensation expense, build-out allowance of $0.2 million and $0.8 million for depreciation and amortization of property and equipment. Further changes in cash flows from operations include a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $12.0 million, a decrease of $1.8 million in Licensor receivables, and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of approximately $1.0 million. The decrease in accrued expenses reflects a payment of approximately $16.4 million for employee payroll taxes withheld related to the exercise of employee stock options during December 2014, paid in January 2015. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets reflects up-front payments made to various CROs for company-initiated clinical trials, for various insurance policies and the comparator inventory. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $15.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. This includes an increase in intangible assets of approximately $50.0 million, the purchase of available-for-sale securities of approximately $79.7 million, offset by the maturity of available-for-sale securities of approximately $114.7 million and cash used for the purchase of property and equipment of approximately $0.4 million as provided the newly hired salesforce with computer and phone equipment for commercial launch of NERLYNX. Net cash provided by investing activities was approximately $142.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. A significant portion represents cash provided by the sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities of approximately $231.3 million offset by cash used for the purchase of available-for-sale securities of approximately $81.8 million. Additionally, cash used included approximately $4.3 million used for the purchase of property and equipment and approximately $3.0 million for expenditures for leasehold improvements. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $85.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. A significant portion of this represents cash used for the purchase of available-for-sale securities of approximately $214.8 million offset by the sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities of $133.2 million. Additionally, approximately $3.1 million of net cash used in investing activities was transferred to restricted cash to secure a standby letter of credit for the additional office leases and approximately $1.2 million was used for leasehold improvements and the purchase of property and equipment to support corporate growth. On October 31, 2017, we entered into a loan agreement for a term loan of up to $100.0 million, subject to funding in two tranches. We received proceeds net of fee associated with the initiation and interest fees of $48.5 million from the first tranche of the credit facility upon closing on October 31, 2017 and intend to use the funds for general corporate purposes and to further support NERLYNX commercial initiatives. The second tranche of $50.0 million less associated fees per the financing agreement may be drawn at our option between March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018 provided we have achieved a specified minimum revenue milestone and no event of default is occurring. The loan will mature on October 31, 2022. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately $26.7 million was received for employee stock options exercised during 2017. On October 19, 2016, we entered into an underwriting agreement in connection with the public offering, issuance and sale by us of 3,750,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $40.00 per share, less underwriting discounts and commissions. Under the terms of the underwriting agreement, we also granted the underwriters an option exercisable for 30 days to purchase up to an additional 562,500 shares of our common stock at the public offering price, less underwriting discounts and commissions. On October 20, 2016, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase additional shares in full. We received net proceeds from the offering of approximately $161.9 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2016, approximately $0.6 million was received for employee stock options exercised during 2016. On January 27, 2015, we completed an underwritten public offering of 1,150,000 shares of our common stock (including an additional 150,000 shares of our common stock issued and sold pursuant to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at a price of $190.00 per share, less underwriting discounts and commissions. The net proceeds received by us were approximately $205.1 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2015, $28.2 million was received for employee stock options exercised during 2015. On October 31, 2017, or the Effective Date, we entered into a loan and security agreement, or the credit facility, with Silicon Valley Bank, as administrative and collateral agent, or SVB, and the lenders party thereto from time to time, including Oxford Finance LLC and SVB, pursuant to which the lenders agreed to make term loans available to us in an aggregate amount of $100 million, consisting of (i) an aggregate amount of $50 million available on the Effective Date and (ii) an aggregate amount of $50 million available to be drawn at our option between March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, provided we have achieved a specified minimum revenue milestone and no event of default is occurring. Proceeds from the term loans may be used for working capital and general business purposes. The credit facility is secured by substantially all of our personal property other than our intellectual property. We also pledged 65% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of our subsidiary, Puma Biotechnology Ltd. The credit facility limits our ability to grant any interest in our intellectual property to certain permitted licenses and permitted encumbrances set forth in the agreement. The term loans under the credit facility bear interest at an annual rate equal to the greater of (i) 7.75% and (ii) the sum of (a) the “prime rate,” as reported in The Wall Street Journal on the last business day of the month that immediately precedes the month in which the interest will accrue, plus (b) 3.5%. We are required to make monthly interest-only payments on each outstanding term loan commencing on the first calendar day of the calendar month following the funding date of such term loan, and continuing on the first calendar day of each calendar month thereafter through December 1, 2019. Commencing on December 1, 2019, and continuing on the first calendar day of each calendar month thereafter, we are required to make consecutive equal monthly payments of principal, together with applicable interest, in arrears to each lender, calculated pursuant to the credit facility. All unpaid principal and accrued and unpaid interest with respect to each term loan is due and payable in full on October 31, 2022. Upon repayment of the term loans, we are also required to make a final payment to the lenders equal to 7.5% of the original principal amount of term loans funded. At our option, we may prepay the outstanding principal balance of any term loan in whole but not in part, subject to a prepayment fee of 2.0% of any amount prepaid if the prepayment occurs through and including the first anniversary of the funding date of such term loan, or 1.0% of the amount prepaid if the prepayment occurs after the first anniversary of the funding date of such term loan through and including the second anniversary of the funding date of such term loan. The credit facility includes affirmative and negative covenants applicable to us, our current subsidiary and any subsidiaries we may create in the future. The affirmative covenants include, among others, covenants requiring us to maintain our legal corporate existence and governmental approvals, deliver certain financial reports, maintain insurance coverage and satisfy certain requirements regarding deposit accounts. We must also achieve product revenue, measured as of the last day of each fiscal quarter on a trailing three-month basis, that is (i) greater than or equal to 70% of our revenue target set forth in our board-approved projections for the 2017 fiscal year, (ii) greater than or equal to 50% of our revenue target set forth in our board-approved projections for the 2018 fiscal year, and (iii) greater than or equal to 50% of our revenue target set forth in our board-approved projections for the 2019 fiscal year. New minimum revenue levels will be established for each subsequent fiscal year by our mutual agreement with SVB, as administrative agent, and the lenders. The negative covenants include, among others, restrictions on us transferring collateral, incurring additional indebtedness, engaging in mergers or acquisitions, paying dividends or making other distributions, making investments, creating liens, selling assets and suffering a change in control, in each case subject to certain exceptions. The credit facility also includes events of default, the occurrence and continuation of which could cause interest to be charged at the rate that is otherwise applicable plus 5.0% and would provide SVB, as collateral agent, with the right to exercise remedies against us and the collateral securing the credit facility, including foreclosure against the property securing the credit facilities, including its cash. These events of default include, among other things, any failure by us to pay principal or interest due under the credit facility, a breach of certain covenants under the credit facility, our insolvency, a material adverse change, the occurrence of any default under certain other indebtedness in an amount greater than $500,000 and one or more judgments against us in an amount greater than $500,000 individually or in the aggregate. We have incurred negative cash flows from operations since we started our business, and we did not achieve any product revenues until the third quarter of 2017. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, substantial amounts in connection with implementing our business strategy, including our planned product development efforts, our clinical trials, our R&D efforts and the commercialization efforts. Given the current and desired pace of clinical development of our product candidates, over the next 12 months we estimate that our R&D spending will be approximately $130 million to $140 million, excluding stock-based compensation. Additionally, we expect SG&A expenses to increase as we continue commercialization efforts. We are currently exploring methods by which to commercialize our product candidates if approved by the FDA or EMA. These methods may require funding in addition to the cash and cash equivalents totaling approximately $81.7 million available at December 31, 2017. While our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, we expect to continue incurring significant losses for the foreseeable future and will continue to remain dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient funding to sustain operation and successfully commercially launch neratinib. While we have been successful in raising financing in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Our ability to obtain funding may be adversely impacted by uncertain market conditions, unfavorable decisions of regulatory authorities or adverse clinical trial results. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time. In addition, we have based our estimate of capital needs on assumptions that may prove to be wrong. Changes may occur that would consume our available capital faster than anticipated, including changes in and progress of our development activities, the impact of commercialization efforts, acquisitions of additional drug candidates and changes in regulation. Potential sources of financing include strategic relationships, public or private sales of equity or debt and other sources of funds. We may seek to access the public or private equity markets when conditions are favorable due to our long-term capital requirements. Although we may have access to the additional $50 million from the debt financing during 2018 provided we have achieved a specified minimum revnue milestone and no event of default is occurring, it is uncertain whether additional funding will be available when we need it on terms that will be acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of common stock or other securities convertible into common stock, the ownership interests of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we are not able to obtain financing when needed, we may be unable to carry out our business plan. As a result, we may have to significantly limit our operations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. In such an event, we will be required to undertake a thorough review of our programs, and the opportunities presented by such programs, and allocate our resources in the manner most prudent. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report on our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 that included an explanatory paragraph referring to our significant operating losses and expressing substantial doubt in our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes the realization of assets and settlement of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to generate profitable operations in the future and/ or to obtain the necessary financing to meet our obligations and repay our liabilities arising from normal business operations when they become due. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with any certainty at this time and raise substantial doubt that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to the amount and classification of assets and liabilities that may be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. We do not have any “off-balance sheet arrangements,” as defined by the SEC regulations. Contractual obligations represent future cash commitments and liabilities under agreements with third parties, and exclude contingent liabilities for which we cannot reasonably predict future payment. Our contractual obligations result from property leases for office space. Although we do have obligations for CRO services, the table below excludes potential payments we may be required to make under our agreements with CROs because timing of payments and actual amounts paid under those agreements may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon terms or amounts for some obligations, and those agreements are cancelable upon written notice by the Company and therefore, not long-term liabilities. The contracts also contain variable costs that are hard to predict as they are based on such things as patients enrolled and clinical trial sites, which can vary and therefore, are also not included in the table below. We also have unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate at December 31, 2017. We do not have tax positions for which it is reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefit will significantly increase or decrease within 12 months of the reporting date. Additionally, the expected timing of payment of the obligations presented below is estimated based on current information. The following table represents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017, aggregated by type (in thousands): sents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017, aggregated by type (in thousands): See Note 10—Taxes and Note 11—Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying notes to the financial statements for a summary of the Company’s uncertain tax positions and contracts held by the Company as of December 31, 2017. The discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities reported in our consolidated financial statements. The estimation process requires assumptions to be made about future events and conditions and, as a result, is inherently subjective and uncertain. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates. The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that are, in management’s view, most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and most demanding of our judgment. We consider the following policies to be critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements and the uncertainties associated with the complex judgments made by us that could impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“Topic 606”) on January 1, 2017. This standard applies to all contracts with customers, except for contracts that are within the scope of other standards, such as leases, insurance, collaboration arrangements, and financial instruments. Under Topic 606, an entity recognizes revenue when its customer obtains control of the promised goods or services, in an amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. We had no contracts with customers until the FDA approved NERLYNX on July 17, 2017. Subsequent to receiving FDA approval, we entered into a limited number of arrangements with specialty pharmacies (“SPs”) and specialty distributors (“SDs”) in the United States, which we refer to as our Customers, to distribute NERLYNX. These arrangements are our initial contracts with customers. We have determined that these sales channels with customers are similar. Revenue from product sales are recorded at the net sales price (transaction price), which includes estimates of variable consideration for which reserves are established. Components of variable consideration include trade discounts and allowances, product returns, provider chargebacks and discounts, government rebates, payor rebates, and other incentives, such as voluntary patient assistance, and other allowances that are offered within contracts between us and our Customers, payors, and other indirect customers relating to the sale of our products. These reserves, as detailed below, are based on the amounts earned, or to be claimed on the related sales, and are classified as reductions of accounts receivable or a current liability. These estimates take into consideration a range of possible outcomes which are probability-weighted in accordance with the expected value method in Topic 606 for relevant factors such as current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, industry data, and forecasted customer buying and payment patterns. Overall, these reserves reflect our best estimates of the amount of consideration to which it is entitled based on the terms of the respective underlying contracts. The amount of variable consideration which is included in the transaction price may be constrained, and is included in the net sales price only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of the cumulative revenue recognized under the contract will not occur in a future period. Our analyses also contemplated application of the constraint in accordance with the guidance, under which it determined a material reversal of revenue would not occur in a future period for the estimates detailed below as of December 31, 2017 and, therefore, the transaction price was not reduced further during the year ended December 31, 2017. Actual amounts of consideration ultimately received may differ from our estimates. If actual results in the future vary from our estimates, we will adjust these estimates, which would affect net product revenue and earnings in the period such variances become known. We generally provide Customers with discounts which include incentive fees that are explicitly stated in our contracts and are recorded as a reduction of revenue in the period the related product revenue is recognized. In addition, we compensate (through trade discounts and allowances) our Customers for sales order management, data, and distribution services. However, we have determined such services received to date are not distinct from our sale of products to the Customer and, therefore, these payments have been recorded as a reduction of revenue within the statement of operations and comprehensive loss through December 31, 2017. such services received to date are not distinct from our sale of products to the Customer and, therefore, these payments have been recorded as a reduction of revenu e within the statement of operations and comprehensive loss through December 31, 2017. Consistent with industry practice, we offer the SPs and SDs limited product return rights for damaged and expiring products, provided it is within a specified period around the product expiration date as set forth in the applicable individual distribution agreement. We estimate the amount of our product sales that may be returned by our Customers and record this estimate as a reduction of revenue in the period the related product revenue is recognized, as well a reduction to trade receivables, net on the consolidated balance sheets. We currently estimate product returns using available industry data and our sales information, including our visibility into the inventory remaining in the distribution channel. We have an insignificant amount of returns to date and believe that returns of our products will continue to be minimal. Chargebacks for fees and discounts to providers represent the estimated obligations resulting from contractual commitments to sell products to qualified healthcare providers at prices lower than the list prices charged to Customers who directly purchase the product from us. Customers charge us for the difference between what they pay for the product and the ultimate selling price to the qualified healthcare providers. These reserves are established in the same period that the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the establishment of a current liability. Chargeback amounts are generally determined at the time of resale to the qualified healthcare provider by Customers, and we generally issue payments for such amounts within a few weeks of the Customer’s notification to us of the resale. Reserves for chargebacks consist of payments that we expect to issue for units that remain in the distribution channel at each reporting period-end that we expect will be sold to qualified healthcare providers, and chargebacks that Customers have claimed, but for which we have not yet issued a payment. We are subject to discount obligations under state Medicaid programs and Medicare. These reserves are recorded in the same period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the establishment of a current liability which is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. For Medicare, we also estimate the number of patients in the prescription drug coverage gap for whom we will owe an additional liability under the Medicare Part D program. Our liability for these rebates consists of invoices received for claims from prior quarters that have not been paid or for which an invoice has not yet been received, estimates of claims for the current quarter, and estimated future claims that will be made for product that has been recognized as revenue, but which remains in the distribution channel at the end of each reporting period. We contract with certain private payor organizations, primarily insurance companies and pharmacy benefit managers, for the payment of rebates with respect to utilization of its products. We estimate these rebates and records such estimates in the same period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the establishment of a current liability. Other incentives which we offer include voluntary patient assistance programs, such as the co-pay assistance program, which are intended to provide financial assistance to qualified commercially-insured patients with prescription drug co-payments required by payors. The calculation of the accrual for co-pay assistance is based on an estimate of claims and the cost per claim that we expect to receive associated with product that has been recognized as revenue, but remains in the distribution channel at the end of each reporting period. The adjustments are recorded in the same period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the establishment of a current liability which is included as a component of accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, FASB, issued a new accounting standard that amends the guidance for the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers to transfer goods and services. The FASB has subsequently issued additional, clarifying standards to address issues arising from implementation of the new revenue recognition standard. The new revenue recognition standard and clarifying standards are effective for interim and annual periods beginning on January 1, 2018, but could have been adopted early beginning January 1, 2017. We chose to adopt this standard in 2017 as we began to first generate revenue, with no revenue recognized in prior years. We have also identified and implemented changes to our accounting policies, business processes, and internal controls to support the new accounting and disclosure requirements. recognized in prior years. We have also identified and implemented c hanges to our accounting policies, business processes, and internal controls to support the new accounting and disclosure requirements. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01,Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. ASU No. 2016-01 requires equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income; simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values by requiring a qualitative assessment to identify impairment; eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet; requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes; requires an entity to present separately in other comprehensive income the portion of the total change in the fair value of a liability resulting from a change in the instrument-specific credit risk when the entity has elected to measure the liability at fair value in accordance with the fair value option for financial instruments; requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial assets on the balance sheet or the accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets. ASU No. 2016-01 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating the impact that ASU No. 2016-01 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2016-02,Leases. The amendments in ASU 2016-02 will require organizations that lease assets, with lease terms of more than 12 months, to recognize on their balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases. Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease. However, unlike current GAAP which requires only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, ASU No. 2016-02 will require both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-02 on our outstanding leases and expects that adoption will have an impact on the consolidated balance sheets related to recording right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09,Compensation – Stock Compensation: Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting,which was intended to simplify various aspects of accounting for share-based payment transactions. The new guidance requires immediate recognition of all excess tax benefits and deficiencies in the income statement; requires classification of excess tax benefits as an operating activity as opposed to a financing activity in the statements of cash flows; requires the classification of cash paid by an employer when directly withholding shares for tax-withholding purposes be classified as a financing activity on the statements of cash flows; and allows us to make an accounting policy election to either estimate the number of awards expected to vest or account for forfeitures when they occur. The standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual reporting periods. We applied an accounting policy election to estimate forfeitures and then true up actual forfeitures as they occur. Because this treatment was in line with our current treatment of forfeitures, the impact was insignificant as of December 31, 2017.This adoption resulted in a one-time net increase to the net operating losses deferred tax asset and the corresponding valuation allowance of $184.1 million at the federal and state level, which is a primarily cumulative adjustment for the previously unrecognized windfall tax benefits related to previous vesting and exercises of stock-based awards. We applied this standard in the first quarter of 2017 using themodified retrospective transitionmethod of adoption. Due to the full valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets, the adoption did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements on the adoption date. In addition, under the new standard, we will prospectively reflect the tax deficiencies and benefits as an operating activity, rather than as a financing activity under the previous standard, in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Compensation – Stock Compensation: Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, This adoption resulted in a one-time net increase to the net operating losses deferred tax asset and the corresponding valuation allowance of $184.1 million at the federal and state level, which is a primarily cumulative adjustment for the previously unrecognized windfall tax benefits related to previous vesting and exercises of stock-based awards. We applied this standard in the first quarter of 2017 using the method of adoption. Due to the full valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets, the adoption did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements on the adoption date. In addition, under the new standard, we will prospectively reflect the tax deficiencies and benefits as an operating activity, rather than as a financing activity under the previous standard, in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15,Statement of Cash Flows(Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments(a consensus of the Emerging Issues Task Force), which addresses the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. This update addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice. ASU 2016-15 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2016-15 on our consolidated financial statements. : Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments a consensus of the Emerging Issues Task Force In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18,Statement of Cash Flows(Topic 230):Restricted Cashthat changes the presentation of restricted cash and cash equivalents on the statement of cash flows. Restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. This amendment is effective for us in the fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2017, but early adoption is permissible. We are currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of ASU 2016-18 will have on our consolidated financial statements. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11,Inventory (Topic 330):Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, which requires an entity to measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value, and eliminates current GAAP options for measuring market value. ASU 2015-11 defines realizable value as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. ASU 2015-11 was adopted by the Company in fiscal year 2017, and interim periods therein without a material impact to the financial statements. We measure our inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value. , which requires an entity to measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value, and eliminates current GAAP options for measuring market value. ASU 2015-11 defines realizable v alue as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. ASU 2015-11 was adopted by the Company in fiscal year 2017, and interim periods therein without a materi al impact to the financial statements. We measure our inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value.