candidates. The duration and cost of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project as a result of unanticipated events arising during clinical development and a variety of other factors, including: •the number of trials and studies in a clinical program; the number of trials and studies in a clinical program; •the number of patients who participate in the trials; the number of patients who participate in the trials; •the number of sites included in the trials; the number of sites included in the trials; •the costs of manufacturing our drug candidates; and the costs of manufacturing our drug candidates; and •the costs, requirements, timing of, and ability to secure regulatory approvals. the costs, requirements, timing of, and ability to secure regulatory approvals. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized approximately $1.0 million in interest income compared to approximately $1.0 million and $0.3 million of interest income for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase in interest income reflects excess cash invested in money market accounts, marketable securities and “high yield” savings accounts for a full year and cash invested from public offerings of our common stock completed in January 2015 and October 2016 (see Note 6 in the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements). In addition to our operating results, as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures when planning, monitoring, and evaluating our operational performance. The following table presents our net loss and net loss per share, as calculated in accordance with GAAP, as adjusted to remove the impact of employee stock-based compensation. For the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2016, stock-based compensation represented approximately 40.4% and 42.5% of our net loss, respectively. Although net loss is important to measure our financial performance, we currently place an emphasis on cash burn and, more specifically, cash used in operations. Because stock-based compensation appears in the GAAP net loss but is removed from net loss to arrive as cash used in operations on the statement of cash flows, due to its non-cash nature, we believe these non-GAAP measures enhance understanding of our financial performance, are more indicative of our operational performance and facilitate a better comparison among fiscal periods. These non-GAAP financial measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for GAAP reporting measures. Reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Loss and GAAP Net Loss Per Share to Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Loss Per Share Reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Non-GAAP Adjuste d Net Loss and GAAP Net Loss Per Share to Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Loss Per Share (in thousands except share and per share data) Years Ended December 31,201620152014GAAP net loss$(276,011)$(239,284)$(141,965)Adjustments:Stock-based compensation:General and administrative26,62317,1669,154(1)Research and development90,64177,76829,997(2)Non-GAAP adjusted net loss$(158,747)$(144,350)$(102,814)GAAP net loss per share - basic and diluted$(8.29)$(7.45)$(4.73)Adjustment to net loss (as detailed above)3.522.961.30Non-GAAP adjusted net loss per share$(4.77)$(4.49)$(3.43)(3)(1) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for General and Administrative stock-based compensation.(2) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for Research and Development stock-based compensation.(3) Non-GAAP adjusted net loss per share was calculated based on 33,295,114, 32,126,094 and 30,010,979 weighted average common shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. GAAP net loss per share - basic and diluted (1) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for General and Administrative stock-based compensation. (2) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for Research and Development stock-based compensation. (3) Non-GAAP adjusted net loss per share was calculated based on 33,295,114, 32,126,094 and 30,010,979 weighted average common shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We reported net losses of approximately $276.0 million, $239.3 million and $142.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We also reported negative cash flows from operating activities of approximately $141.7 million, $154.5 million and $77.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2016, includes a net loss of $276.0 million adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $117.3 million for stock-based compensation expense, build-out allowance of approximately $3.0 million, disposal of leasehold improvements of approximately $0.4 million and depreciation and amortization of property and equipment of approximately $1.1 million. Further changes in cash flows from operations include an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $5.0 million, a decrease in prepaid expenses and other of approximately $3.4 million and an increase in the accrued liability for deferred rent of approximately $4.1 million. This increase in accrued liability for deferred rent was due to the amendments to the leases for office space, which became effective in April 2016. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, includes a net loss of $239.3 million, adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $94.9 million for stock-based compensation expense, build-out allowance of $0.2 million and $0.8 million for depreciation and amortization of property and equipment. Further changes in cash flows from operations include a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $12.0 million, a decrease of $1.8 million in Licensor receivables, and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of approximately $1.0 million. The decrease in accrued expenses reflects a payment of approximately $16.4 million for employee payroll taxes withheld related to the exercise of employee stock options during December 2014, paid in January 2015. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets reflects up-front payments made to various CROs for company-initiated clinical trials, for various insurance policies and the comparator inventory. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, includes a net loss of $142.0 million adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $39.2 million for stock option expense, build-out allowance of $0.2 million and $0.6 million for depreciation and amortization of property and equipment. Further changes in cash flows from operations include an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $25.2 million, a decrease of $8.1 million in Licensor receivables, and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of approximately $8.6 million. The increase in both accounts payable and accrued expenses reflect an increase in clinical trial cost and an accrual of approximately $16.4 million for employee payroll taxes withheld related to the exercise of employee stock options during December 2014. The proceeds from the exercise of the stock options were primarily received in December 2014 while the payments for taxes withheld were made in January 2015. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets reflects up-front payments made to various CROs for company-initiated clinical trials, various insurance policies and the comparator inventory. Net cash provided by investing activities was approximately $142.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. A significant portion represents cash provided by the sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities of approximately $231.3 million offset by cash used for the purchase of available-for-sale securities of approximately $81.8 million. Additionally, cash used included approximately $4.3 million used for the purchase of property and equipment and approximately $3.0 million for expenditures for leasehold improvements. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $85.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. A significant portion of this represents cash used for the purchase of available-for-sale securities of approximately $214.8 million offset by the sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities of $133.2 million. Additionally, approximately $3.1 million of net cash used in investing activities was transferred to restricted cash to secure a standby letter of credit for the additional office leases and approximately $1.2 million was used for leasehold improvements and the purchase of property and equipment to support corporate growth. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $63.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. A significant portion of this represents cash used for the purchase of available-for-sale securities of approximately $132.3 million offset by the sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities of $70.3 million. Additionally, approximately $1.3 million of cash used in investing activities was used for leasehold improvements and the purchase of property and equipment to support corporate growth. October 2016 Common Stock Offering.On October 19, 2016, we entered into an underwriting agreement in connection with the public offering, issuance and sale by us of 3,750,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $40.00 per share, less underwriting discounts and commissions. Under the terms of the underwriting agreement, we also granted the underwriters an option exercisable for 30 days to purchase up to an additional 562,500 shares of our common stock at the public offering price, less underwriting discounts and commissions. On October 20, 2016, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase additional shares in full. We received net proceeds from the offering of approximately $161.9 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses. On October 19, 2016, we entered into an underwriting agreement in connection with the public offering, issuance and sale by us of 3,750,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $40.00 per share, less underwriting discounts and commissions. Under the terms of the underwriting agreement, we also granted the underwriters an option exercisable for 30 days to purchase up to an additional 562,500 shares of our common stock at the public offering price, less underwriting discounts and commissions. On October 20, 2016, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase additional shares in full. We received net proceeds from the offering of approximately $161.9 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2016, approximately $0.6 million was received for employee stock options exercised during 2016. January 2015 Common Stock Offering. On January 27, 2015, we completed an underwritten public offering of 1,150,000 shares of our common stock (including an additional 150,000 shares of our common stock issued and sold pursuant to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at a price of $190.00 per share, less the underwriting discount. The net proceeds received by us were approximately $205.1 million after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated offering expenses. . On January 27, 2015, we completed an underwritten public offering of 1,150,000 shares of our common stock (including an additional 150,000 shares of our common stock issued and sold pursuant to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at a price of $190.00 per share, less the underwriting discount. The net proceeds received by us were approximately $205.1 million after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated offering expenses. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2015, $28.2 million was received for employee stock options exercised during 2015. February 2014 Common Stock Offering. On February 14, 2014, we completed an underwritten public offering of 1,126,530 shares of our common stock (including an additional 146,938 shares of our common stock issued and sold pursuant to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at a price of $122.50 per share, less the underwriting discount. The net proceeds received by us were approximately $129.4 million after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated offering expenses. . On February 14, 2014, we completed an underwritten public offering of 1,126,530 shares of our common stock (including an additional 146,938 shares of our common stock issued and sold pursuant to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at a price of $122.50 per share, less the underwriting discount. The net proceeds received by us were approximately $129.4 million after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated offering expenses. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2014, $6.5 million was received for employee stock options exercised during 2014. We have incurred negative cash flows from operations since we started our business, and we do not expect to achieve any product revenues for at least the next 6 to 12 months, if ever. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, substantial amounts in connection with implementing our business strategy, including our planned product development efforts, our clinical trials, our R&D efforts and the commencement of commercialization efforts. Given the current and desired pace of clinical development of our product candidates, over the next 12 months we estimate that our R&D spending will be approximately $140 million to $150 million, excluding stock-based compensation. Additionally, we expect increased G&A expenses as we continue to evaluate our options with regard to commercialization efforts. We are currently exploring methods by which to commercialize our product candidates if approved by the FDA or EMA. These methods may require funding in addition to the cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling approximately$229.4 million available at December 31, 2016. While our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, we expect to continue incurring significant losses for the foreseeable future and will continue to remain dependent onour ability to obtain sufficient funding to sustain operation and successfully commercially launch neratinib if approved by the FDA or EMA. While we have been successful in raising financing in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Our ability to obtain funding may be adversely impacted by uncertain market conditions, unfavorable decisions of regulatory authorities or adverse clinical trial results. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time.If the going concern assumption was not appropriate for the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, adjustment might be necessary to the consolidated financial statements. We are currently exploring methods by which to commercialize our product candidates if approved by the FDA or EMA. These methods may require funding in addition to the cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling approximately $229.4 million available at December 31, 2016. While our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, we expect to continue incurring significant losses for the foreseeable future and will continue to remain dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient funding to sustain operation and successfully commercially launch neratinib if approved by the FDA or EMA. While we have been successful in raising financing in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to d o so in the future. Our ability to obtain funding may be adversely impacted by uncertain market conditions, unfavorable decisions of regulatory authorities or adverse clinical trial results. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time. If the going concern assumption was not appropriate for the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, adjustment might be necessary to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, we have based our estimate of the capital needs on assumptions that may prove to be wrong. Changes may occur that would consume our available capital faster than anticipated, including changes in and progress of our development activities, the impact of commercialization efforts, acquisitions of additional drug candidates and changes in regulation. Potential sources of financing include strategic relationships, public or private sales of equity or debt and other sources of funds. We may seek to access the public or private equity markets when conditions are favorable due to our long-term capital requirements. We do not have any committed sources of financing at this time, and it is uncertain whether additional funding will be available when we need it on terms that will be acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of common stock or other securities convertible into common stock, the ownership interests of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we are not able to obtain financing when needed, we may be unable to carry out our business plan. As a result, we may have to significantly limit our operations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. In such an event, we will be required to undertake a thorough review of our programs, and the opportunities presented by such programs, and allocate our resources in the manner most prudent. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report on our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 that included an explanatory paragraph referring to our significant operating losses and expressing substantial doubt in our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes the realization of assets and settlement of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to generate profitable operations in the future and/ or to obtain the necessary financing to meet our obligations and repay our liabilities arising from normal business operations when they become due. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with any certainty at this time and raise substantial doubt that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to the amount and classification of assets and liabilities that may be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. We do not have any “off-balance sheet arrangements,” as defined by the SEC regulations. Contractual obligations represent future cash commitments and liabilities under agreements with third parties, and exclude contingent liabilities for which we cannot reasonably predict future payment. Our contractual obligations result from property leases for office space. Although we do have obligations for CRO services, the table below excludes potential payments we may be required to make under our agreements with CROs because timing of payments and actual amounts paid under those agreements may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon terms or amounts for some obligations, and those agreements are cancelable upon written notice by the Company and therefore, not long-term liabilities. The contracts also contain variable costs that are hard to predict as they are based on such things as patients enrolled and clinical trial sites, which can vary and therefore, are also not included in the table below. Additionally, the expected timing of payment of the obligations presented below is estimated based on current information. The following table represents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2016, aggregated by type (in thousands): Payments Due by PeriodLess thanMore thanContractual ObligationsTotal1 year1 - 3 years3 - 5 years5 yearsOperating Lease Obligations$41,370$3,977$8,315$8,822$20,256Total$41,370$3,977$8,315$8,822$20,256 Our discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities reported in our consolidated financial statements. The estimation process requires assumptions to be made about future events and conditions and, as a result, is inherently subjective and uncertain. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates. The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that are, in management’s view, most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and most demanding of our judgment. We consider the following policies to be critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements and the uncertainties associated with the complex judgments made by us that could impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated over estimated useful lives ranging from three to five years using the straight-line method. Leasehold improvements are recorded at cost and amortized over the shorter of their useful lives or the term of the lease by use of the straight-line method. Maintenance and repair costs are charged to operations as incurred. The Company assesses the impairment of long-lived assets, primarily property and equipment, whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that carrying amounts of the assets may not be fully recoverable. When such events occur, management determines whether there has been an impairment by comparing the asset’s carrying value with its fair value, as measured by the anticipated undiscounted net cash flows of the asset. Should impairment exist, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value. The Company has not recognized any impairment losses through December 31, 2016. R&D expenses are charged to operations as incurred. The major components of R&D costs include clinical manufacturing costs; clinical trial expenses; consulting and other third-party costs; salaries and employee benefits; stock-based compensation expense; supplies and materials; and allocations of various overhead costs. Clinical trial expenses include, but are not limited to, investigator fees, site costs, comparator drug costs, and CRO costs. In the normal course of business, we contract with third parties to perform various clinical trial activities in the ongoing development of potential products. The financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation and variations from contract to contract and may result in uneven payment flows. Payments under the contracts depend on factors such as the achievement of certain events, the successful enrollment of patients and the completion of portions of the clinical trial or similar conditions. Our cost accruals for clinical trials are based on estimates of the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with numerous clinical trial sites, cooperative groups and CROs. The objective of our accrual policy is to match the recording of expenses in our consolidated financial statements to the actual services received and efforts expended. As actual costs become known, we adjust our accruals in that period. In instances where we enter into agreements with third parties for clinical trials and other consulting activities, upfront amounts are recorded as prepaid expenses and expensed as services are performed or as the underlying goods are delivered. If we do not expect the services to be rendered or goods to be delivered, any remaining capitalized amounts for non-refundable upfront payments are charged to expense immediately. Amounts due under such arrangements may be either fixed fee or fee for service, and may include upfront payments, monthly payments and payments upon the completion of milestones or receipt of deliverables. Costs related to the acquisition of technology rights and patents for which development work is still in process are charged to operations as incurred and considered a component of R&D costs. The licensing agreement set a “cap” on the amount of external expenses we would incur, beginning January 1, 2012, in completing the clinical trials transferred from the Licensor to the Company. The license agreement originally stipulated that the Licensor would be responsible for all external expenses associated with the transferred clinical trials and that we would invoice for such costs on a quarterly basis. The Licensor had 60 days to review the invoice and supporting documentation. All amounts reimbursed from the Licensor represent charges for services provided by third parties and not by us. Accordingly, we have elected to treat the reimbursed costs as a “pass-through” expense billable to the Licensor and as an offset to our R&D expenses. Therefore, our R&D expenses are recorded net of any excess cap costs billed to the Licensor. We recognized approximately $16.4 million of excess cap cost billings in the year ended December 31, 2013. The license agreement was amended in July 2014 and made the Company solely responsible for the expenses incurred or accrued in conducting the ongoing legacy clinical trials after December 31, 2013. Pursuant to the amendment to the original license agreement, no reductions in the expenses related to the licensor legacy clinical trials that were in excess of the cap on such expenses set forth in the license agreement were recorded in the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. The license agreement was amended in July 2014 and made the Company solely responsible for the expenses incurred or accrued in conducting the ongoing legacy clinical trials after December 31, 2013. Pursuant to the amen dment to the original license agreement, no reductions in the expenses related to the licensor legacy clinical trials that were in excess of the cap on such expenses set forth in the license agreement were recorded in the years ended December 31, 2016, 201 Accounting Standards Codification 718,Compensation-Stock Compensation, or ASC 718, requires the fair value of all share-based payments to employees, including grants of stock options, to be recognized in the statement of operations over the requisite service period. Under ASC 718, employee option grants are generally valued at the grant date and those valuations do not change once they have been established. The determination of the fair value using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Method is affected by our stock price as well as a number of complex and subjective variables, including expected stock price volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected dividends and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. As allowed by ASC 718 for companies with a short period of publicly traded stock history, our estimate of expected volatility is based on the average expected volatilities of a sampling of six companies with similar attributes to us, including industry, stage of life cycle, size and financial leverage. The six companies are reviewed quarterly as volatility has the greatest impact on the calculation. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant valuation. Option forfeitures are calculated when the option is granted to reduce the option expense to be recognized over the life of the award and updated upon receipt of further information as to the amount of options expected to be forfeited. The option expense is “trued-up” upon the actual forfeiture of a stock option grant. Due to our limited history, we use the simplified method to determine the expected life of the option grants. Theperformanceshares are valued on the grant date and the fair value of the performance award is equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date. The performance share expense is recognized based on the Company’s estimate of a range of probabilities that the Company’s closing common stock price will be lower or higher on the vesting dates than the Company’s common stock price on the grant date. Based on the range of probabilities, the expense is calculated and recognized over the three-year vesting period. The restricted stock units, or RSUs, are valued on the grant date and the fair value of the RSUs is equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date. The RSU expense is recognized over the requisite service period. When the requisite service period begins prior to the grant date (because the service inception date occurs prior to the grant date), the Company is required to begin recognizing compensation cost before there is a measurement date (i.e., the grant date). The service inception date is the beginning of the requisite service period. If the service inception date precedes the grant date, accrual of compensation cost for periods before the grant date shall be based on the fair value of the award at the reporting date. In the period in which the grant date occurs, cumulative compensation cost shall be adjusted to reflect the cumulative effect of measuring compensation cost based on fair value at the grant date rather than the fair value previously used at the service inception date (or any subsequent reporting date). Warrants granted to employees are normally valued at the fair value of the instrument on the grant date and are recognized in the statement of operations over the requisite service period. When the requisite service period precedes the grant date and a market condition exists in the warrant, the Company values the warrant using the Monte Carlo Simulation Method. When the terms of the warrant become fixed, the Company values the warrant using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Method. As allowed by ASC 718 for companies with a short period of publicly traded stock history, the Company’s estimate of expected volatility is based on the average volatilities of a sampling of eight to nine companies with similar attributes to the Company, including industry, stage of life cycle, size and financial leverage. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the warrant is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant valuation. In determining the value, until the terms are fixed the Company factors in the probability of the market condition occurring and several possible scenarios. When the requisite service period precedes the grant date and is deemed to be complete, the Company records the fair value of the warrant at the time of issuance as an equity stock-based compensation transaction. The warrant is revalued each reporting period up to the grant date when the final fair value of the warrant is established and recorded. The grant date is determined when all pertinent information, such as exercise price and quantity are known. In January 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued ASU No. 2016-01,Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. The amendments in ASU 2016-01 address certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. ASU 2016-01 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption of some of the amendments included in ASU 2016-01 for Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities financial statements of fiscal years or interim periods that have not yet been issued is permitted as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of ASU 2016-01 will have on its consolidated financial statements. financial statements of fiscal years or interim p eriods that have not yet been issued is permitted as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of ASU 2016-01 will have on its consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02,Leases. The amendments in ASU 2016-02 will require organizations that lease assets, with lease terms of more than 12 months, to recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases. Consistent with current U.S. GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease. However, unlike current U.S. GAAP which requires only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, ASU No. 2016-02 will require both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-06,Derivatives and Hedging(Topic 815):Contingent Put and Call Options in Debt Instruments. ASU 2016-06 amends FASB ASC 815-15 to clarify what steps are required when assessing whether the economic characteristics and risks of call (put) options are clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of their debt hosts, which is one of the criteria for bifurcating an embedded derivative. ASU 2016-06 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. An entity should apply the amendments in ASU No. 2016-06 on a modified retrospective basis to existing debt instruments as of the beginning of the fiscal year for which the amendments are effective. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of ASU 2016-06 will have on its consolidated financial statements. Contingent Put and Call Options in Debt Instruments In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09,Compensation – Stock Compensation(Topic 718). ASU 2016-09 will require organizations to recognize all income tax effects of awards in the statement of operations when the awards vest or are settled. ASU 2016-09 will also allow organizations to repurchase more shares from employees than they could previously purchase for tax withholding purposes without triggering liability accounting and to make a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur. ASU 2016-09 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted in any interim or annual period. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of ASU 2016-09 will have on its consolidated financial statements. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10,Revenue from Contracts with Customers(Topic 606). ASU 2016-10 amends ASC 606,Revenue from Contracts with Customers, to clarify two aspects of ASC 606, identifying performance obligations and the licensing implementation guidance, while retaining the related principles of those areas. The amendments in ASU 2016-10 do not change the core principle of the guidance in ASC 606. The amendments in ASU No. 2016-10 affect the guidance in ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606),which is not yet effective. The effective date and transition requirements for the amendments in ASU No. 2016-10 are the same as the effective date and transition requirements in ASC 606 and any other Topic amended by ASU 2014-09. ASU 2015-14,Revenue from Contracts with Customers(Topic 606):Deferral of the Effective Date, defers the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of ASU 2016-10 will have on its consolidated financial statements. In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-12,Revenue from Contracts with Customers(Topic 606). ASU 2016-12 amends ASC 606 to address certain issues in the guidance on assessing collectability, presentation of sales taxes, noncash consideration, and completed contracts and contract modifications at transition. The amendments in ASU 2016-12 do not change the core principle of the guidance in ASC 606. The amendments in ASU No. 2016-12 affect the guidance in ASU 2014-09,Revenue from Contracts with Customers(Topic 606),which is not yet effective. The effective date and transition requirements for the amendments in ASU No. 2016-12 are the same as the effective date and transition requirements in ASC 606 and any other Topic amended by ASU 2014-09. ASU 2015-14,Revenue from Contracts with Customers(Topic 606):Deferral of the Effective Date, defers the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of ASU 2016-12 will have on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15,Statement of Cash Flows(Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments(a consensus of the Emerging Issues Task Force), which addresses the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. This update addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice. ASU 2016-15 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2016-15 on its consolidated financial statements. : Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18,Statement of Cash Flows(Topic 230):Restricted Cashthat changes the presentation of restricted cash and cash equivalents on the statement of cash flows.Restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. This amendment is effective for the Company in the fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2017, but early adoption is permissible. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of ASU 2016-18 will have on its consolidated financial statements. In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18, that changes the presentation of restricted cash and cash equivalents on the statement of cash flows. Restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. This amendment is effective for the Company in th e fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2017, but early adoption is permissible. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of ASU 2016-18 will have on its consolidated financial statements.