tely $1.8 million in interest income compared to approximately $1.3 million of interest income for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in interest income reflects more cash invested in money market accounts and “high yield” savings accounts for 2018 compared to 2017 (see Note 2 in the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements). For the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized approximately $11.0 million in interest expense compared to $0.7 million of interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2017. This increase in interest expense is primarily a result of a full year’s interest expense, compared to three months of interest expense in 2017, for amounts borrowed under a loan and security agreement initially entered in October 2017. The increase in interest expense is also attributable to increased borrowings as well as a higher interest rate year over year. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we recorded an accrued expense of $9.0 million that represents an initial estimate of potential amounts that may be owed to class action participants as a result of the recent jury verdict inHsu v. Puma Biotechnology, Inc., et al. The total amount of aggregate class-wide damages is uncertain and will be ascertained only after an extensive claims process and the exhaustion of any appeals. It is also possible that the total damages will be higher than this estimate. Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2016 For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized approximately $1.3 million in interest income compared to approximately $1.0 million of interest income for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase in interest income reflects more cash invested in money market accounts and “high yield” savings accounts for 2017 compared to 2016 (see Note 2 in the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements). For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized approximately $0.7 million in interest expense compared to $0 of interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2016. This increase in interest expense is as a result of amounts borrowed under a loan and security agreement in October 2017. In addition to our operating results, as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures when planning, monitoring, and evaluating our operational performance. The following table presents our net loss and net loss per share, as calculated in accordance with GAAP, as adjusted to remove the impact of stock-based compensation. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2018, stock-based compensation represented approximately 76.5% of our net loss, respectively. Our management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to enhance understanding of our financial performance, are more indicative of our operational performance and facilitate a better comparison among fiscal periods. These non-GAAP financial measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for GAAP reporting measures. Reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Loss and GAAP Net Loss Per Share to Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Loss Per Share (in thousands except share and per share data) For the Year Ended December 31,201820172016GAAP net loss$(113,575)$(291,955)$(276,011)Adjustments:Stock-based compensation -Selling, general andadministrative34,91431,19426,623(1)Research and development52,02577,54190,641(2)Non-GAAP adjusted net loss$(26,636)$(183,220)$(158,747)GAAP net loss per share—basic and diluted$(2.99)$(7.85)$(8.29)Adjustment to net loss (as detailedabove)2.292.923.52Non-GAAP adjusted basic net lossper share$(0.70)$(4.93)$(4.77)(3)(1) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for selling, general and administrative stock-based compensation.(2) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for research and development stock-based compensation.(3) Non-GAAP adjusted basic net loss per share was calculated based on 37,942,411, 37,169,678, and 33,295,114 weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. (1) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for selling, general and administrative stock-based compensation. (2) To reflect a non-cash charge to operating expense for research and development stock-based compensation. (3) Non-GAAP adjusted basic net loss per share was calculated based on 37,942,411, 37,169,678, and 33,295,114 weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We recorded net losses of approximately $113.6 million, $292.0 million and $276.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We also reported negative cash flows from operating activities of approximately $24.1 million, $172.5 million and $141.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2018, included a net loss of $113.6 million adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $86.9 million for stock-based compensation expense and of approximately $7.4 million for depreciation of property and equipment and license amortization. Further changes in cash flows from operations included decreases in accounts receivable of $11.1 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $7.0 million, a decrease in other current assets of $1.8 million, a decrease in prepaid expenses and other of $0.8 million, and a decrease in inventory of $0.6 million. These decreases were offset by an increase in accrued expenses of approximately $15.8 million and deferred rent of $0.4 million. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2017, included a net loss of $292.0 million adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $108.7 million for stock-based compensation expense and of approximately $2.8 million for depreciation of property and equipment and license amortization. Further changes in cash flows from operations included an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $21.6 million, an increase in accounts receivable of approximately $9.7million, an increase in inventory of approximately $2.0 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other of approximately $1.1 million and a decrease in the accrued liability for deferred rent of approximately $0.1 million. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2017, included a net loss of $292.0 million adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $108.7 million for stock-based compensation expense and of approximately $2.8 million for depreci ation of property and equipment and license amortization. Further changes in cash flows from operations included an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $21.6 million, an increase in accounts receivable of approximately $9.7 million, an increase in inventory of approximately $2.0 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other of approximately $1.1 million and a decrease in the accrued liability for deferred rent of approximately $0.1 million. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2016, included a net loss of $276.0 million adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $117.3 million for stock-based compensation expense, of approximately $3.0 million for build-out allowance, of approximately $1.1 million for depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, and of approximately $0.4 million for disposal of leasehold improvements. Further changes in cash flows from operations included an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $5.0 million, a decrease in prepaid expenses and other of approximately $3.4 million and an increase in an accrued liability for deferred rent of approximately $4.1 million. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $57.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. This included the purchase of available-for-sale securities of approximately $107.5 million, offset by the maturity of available-for-sale securities of approximately $50.5 million and cash used for the purchase of property and equipment of approximately $0.6 million in connection with the expansion of our salesforce and the commercial launch of NERLYNX. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $15.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. This included an increase in intangible assets of approximately $50.0 million and the purchase of available-for-sale securities of approximately $79.7 million, offset by the maturity of available-for-sale securities of approximately $114.7 million and cash used for the purchase of property and equipment of approximately $0.4 million in connection with the expansion of our salesforce and the commercial launch of NERLYNX. Net cash provided by investing activities was approximately $142.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. A significant portion represents cash provided by the sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities of approximately $231.3 million, offset by cash used for the purchase of available-for-sale securities of approximately $81.8 million. Additionally, cash used included approximately $4.3 million used for the purchase of property and equipment and approximately $3.0 million for expenditures for leasehold improvements. During the year ended December 31, 2018, cash provided by financing activities was approximately $108.5 million, which consisted of $105.0 million of incremental proceeds from our amended loan and security agreement with SVB, and $7.7 million of net proceeds from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $4.2 million of cash used for the payment of debt issuances related to our amended loan and security agreement with SVB. During the year ended December 31, 2017, cash provided by financing activities was approximately $75.1 million, which consisted of $50.0 million of gross proceeds from our loan and security agreement with SVB and $26.7million from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $1.6 million of cash used for the payment of debt issuance costs related to our loan and security agreement with SVB. During the year ended December 31, 2016, cash provided by financing activities was approximately $162.4 million, which consisted of$161.9 millionof net proceeds from thepublic offering, issuance and sale by us of 3,750,000 shares of our common stock in October 2016,and$0.6million from the exercise of stock options. public offering, issuance and sale by us of 3,750,000 shares of our common stock in October 2016, In October 2017, we entered into a loan and security agreement with SVB, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto from time to time, including SVB and Oxford. Pursuant to the terms of the credit facility provided for by the original loan and security agreement, we borrowed $50 million in October 2017.In May 2018, we entered into an amendment to the loan and security agreement. Under the amended credit facility, the lenders agreed to make term loans available to us in an aggregate amount of $155 million, consisting of (i) a term loan in an aggregate amount of $125 million, the proceeds of which, in part, were used to repay the $50 million we borrowed under the original credit facility, and (ii) a term loan in an aggregate amount of $30 million that we drew in December 2018, which was available to us under the credit facility as a result of achieving a specified minimum revenue milestone. Proceeds from the term loans under the amended credit facility may be used for working capital and general business purposes. The amended credit facility is secured by substantially all of our personal property other than our intellectual property. We also pledged 65% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of our subsidiary, Puma Biotechnology Ltd. In October 2017, we entered into a loan and security agreement with SVB, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto from time to time, including SVB and Oxford. Pursuant to the terms of the credit facility provided for by the original loan and security agreement, we borrowed $50 million in October 2017. The term loans under the amended credit facility bear interest at an annual rate equal to the greater of (i) 8.25% and (ii) the sum of (a) the “prime rate,” as reported in The Wall Street Journal on the last business day of the month that immediately precedes the month in which the interest will accrue, plus (b) 3.5%. We are required to make monthly interest-only payments on each term loan commencing on the first calendar day of the calendar month following the funding date of such term loan, and continuing on the first calendar day of each calendar month thereafter through July 1, 2020. Commencing on July 1, 2020, and continuing on the first calendar day of each calendar month thereafter, we will make consecutive equal monthly payments of principal, together with applicable interest, in arrears to each lender, calculated pursuant to the amended credit facility. All unpaid principal and accrued and unpaid interest with respect to each term loan is due and payable in full on May 1, 2023. Upon repayment of the term loans, we are also required to make a final payment to the lenders equal to 7.5% of the original principal amount of term loans funded. At our option, we may prepay the outstanding principal balance of any term loan in whole but not in part, subject to a prepayment fee of 3.0% of any amount prepaid if the prepayment occurs through and including the first anniversary of the funding date of such term loan, 2.0% of any amount prepaid if the prepayment occurs after the first anniversary of the funding date of such term loan through and including the second anniversary of the funding date of such term loan, and 1.0% of the amount prepaid if the prepayment occurs after the second anniversary of the funding date of such term loan and prior to May 1, 2023. The amended credit facility includes affirmative and negative covenants applicable to us, our current subsidiary and any subsidiaries we create in the future. The affirmative covenants include, among others, covenants requiring us to maintain our legal existence and governmental approvals, deliver certain financial reports, maintain insurance coverage and satisfy certain requirements regarding deposit accounts. we must also achieve product revenue, measured as of the last day of each fiscal quarter on a trailing three month basis, that is (i) greater than or equal to 70% of our revenue target set forth in our board-approved projections for the 2018 fiscal year and (ii) greater than or equal to 50% of our revenue target set forth in our board-approved projections for the 2019 fiscal year. New minimum revenue levels will be established for each subsequent fiscal year by mutual agreement of us, SVB, as administrative agent, and the lenders. The negative covenants include, among others, restrictions on us transferring collateral, incurring additional indebtedness, engaging in mergers or acquisitions, paying dividends or making other distributions, making investments, creating liens, selling assets and suffering a change in control, in each case subject to certain exceptions. The amended credit facility also includes events of default, the occurrence and continuation of which could cause interest to be charged at the rate that is otherwise applicable plus 5.0% and would provide SVB, as collateral agent, with the right to exercise remedies against us and the collateral securing the amended credit facility, including foreclosure against the property securing the credit facilities, including our cash. These events of default include, among other things, a failure by us to pay principal or interest due under the amended credit facility, a breach of certain covenants under the amended credit facility, our insolvency, a material adverse change, the occurrence of any default under certain other indebtedness in an amount greater than $500,000 and one or more judgments against us in an amount greater than $500,000 individually or in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2018, there was $155.0 million in term loans outstanding under the amended credit facility, and we were in compliance with all applicable covenants under the amended credit facility. We have incurred negative cash flows from operations since we started our business, and we did not receive or record any product revenues until the third quarter of 2017. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, substantial amounts in connection with implementing our business strategy, including our planned product development efforts, our clinical trials, our R&D efforts and our commercialization efforts. Given the current and desired pace of clinical development of our product candidates, over the next 12 months we estimate that our R&D spending will be approximately $120 million to $130 million, excluding stock-based compensation. Additionally, we expect SG&A expenses to increase as we continue commercialization efforts. We are currently exploring methods by which to commercialize our other product candidates if approved by the FDA or international regulatory bodies. These methods may require funding in addition to the cash and cash equivalents totaling approximately $108.4 million and $57.0 million in marketable securities available at December 31, 2018. While our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, we expect to continue incurring significant losses for the foreseeable future and will continue to remain dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient funding to sustain operations and successfully commercialize neratinib. While we have been successful in raising financing in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Our ability to obtain funding may be adversely impacted by uncertain market conditions, unfavorable decisions of regulatory authorities or adverse clinical trial results. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time. In addition, we have based our estimate of capital needs on assumptions that may prove to be wrong. Changes may occur that would consume our available capital faster than anticipated, including changes in and progress of our development activities, the impact of commercialization efforts, acquisitions of additional drug candidates and changes in regulation. Potential sources of financing include strategic relationships, public or private sales of equity or debt and other sources of funds. We may seek to access the public orprivate equity markets when conditions are favorable due to our long-term capital requirements. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of common stock or other securities convertible into common stock, the ownership interests of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we are not able to obtain financing when needed, we may be unable to carry out our business plan. As a result, we may have to significantly limit our operations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. In such an event, we will be required to undertake a thorough review of our programs, and the opportunities presented by such programs, and allocate our resources in the manner most prudent. ave based our estimate of capital needs on assumptions that may prove to be wrong. Changes may occur that would consume our available capital faster than anticipated, including changes in and progress of our development activities, the impact of commercial ization efforts, acquisitions of additional drug candidates and changes in regulation. Potential sources of financing include strategic relationships, public or private sales of equity or debt and other sources of funds. We may seek to access the public or private equity markets when conditions are favorable due to our long-term capital requirements. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of common stock or other securities convertible into common stock, the ownership interests of our existing stock holders will be diluted. If we are not able to obtain financing when needed, we may be unable to carry out our business plan. As a result, we may have to significantly limit our operations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations wo uld be materially harmed. In such an event, we will be required to undertake a thorough review of our programs, and the opportunities presented by such programs, and allocate our resources in the manner most prudent. We do not have any “off-balance sheet arrangements,” as defined by the SEC regulations. Contractual obligations represent future cash commitments and liabilities under agreements with third parties, and exclude contingent liabilities for which we cannot reasonably predict future payment. Our contractual obligations result from property leases for office space. Although we do have obligations for CRO services, the table below excludes potential payments we may be required to make under our agreements with CROs because timing of payments and actual amounts paid under those agreements may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon terms or amounts for some obligations, and those agreements are cancelable upon written notice by the Company and therefore, not long-term liabilities. The contracts also contain variable costs and milestones that are hard to predict as they are based on such things as patients enrolled and clinical trial sites, which can vary and therefore, are also not included in the table below. We also have unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate at December 31, 2018. We do not have tax positions for which it is reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefit will significantly increase or decrease within 12 months of the reporting date. Additionally, the expected timing of payment of the obligations presented below is estimated based on current information. The following table represents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018, aggregated by type (in thousands): In regard to our contractual obligations in relation to the Pfizer in-license agreement, as consideration for the license, we are required to make substantial payments upon the achievement of certain milestones totaling approximately $187.5 million if all such milestones are achieved. These milestone amounts were not included in the table above as the timing of when or if these payments will be made is uncertain. In connection with the FDA approval of NERLYNX in July of 2017, we triggered a one-time milestone payment pursuant to the agreement. Should we commercialize any more of the compounds licensed from Pfizer or any products containing any of these compounds, we will be obligated to pay to Pfizer annual royalties at a fixed rate in the low-to-mid teens of net sales of all such products, subject to certain reductions and offsets in some circumstances. Our royalty obligation continues, on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis, until the later of (1) the last to expire licensed patent covering the applicable licensed product in such country, or (2) the earlier of generic competition for such licensed product reaching a certain level in such country or expiration of a certain time period after first commercial sale of such licensed product in such country. In the event that we sublicense the rights granted to us under the license agreement with Pfizer to a third party, the same milestone and royalty payments are required. We can terminate the license agreement at will, or for safety concerns, in each case upon specified advance notice. See Note 11—Taxes and Note 12—Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying notes to the financial statements for a summary of our uncertain tax positions and contracts held by us as of December 31, 2018. As of December 31, 2018, the amount of unrecognized tax benefit was $8.8M, and also not included in the table above as the timing of when or if these payments will be made is uncertain. The discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities reported in our consolidated financial statements. The estimation process requires assumptions to be made about future events and conditions and, as a result, is inherently subjective and uncertain. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates. The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that are, in management’s view, most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and most demanding of our judgment. We consider the following policies to be critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements and the uncertainties associated with the complex judgments made by us that could impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We adopted Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers, or Topic 606, on January 1, 2017. This standard applies to all contracts with customers, except for contracts that are within the scope of other standards, such as leases, insurance, collaboration arrangements, and financial instruments. Under Topic 606, an entity recognizes revenue when its customer obtains control of the promised goods or services, in an amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. We had no contracts with customers until the FDA approved NERLYNX on July 17, 2017. Subsequent to receiving FDA approval, we entered into a limited number of arrangements with specialty pharmacies and specialty distributors in the United States, to distribute NERLYNX. These arrangements are our initial contracts with customers. We have determined that these sales channels with customers are similar. We recognize license revenue under certain of our license agreements that are within the scope of ASC Topic 606. The terms of these agreements may contain multiple performance obligations, which may include licenses and research and development activities. We evaluate these agreements under ASC Topic 606 to determine the distinct performance obligations.Non-refundable, up-front fees that are not contingent on any future performance and require no consequential continuing involvement by us, are recognized as revenue when the license term commences and the licensed data, technology or product is delivered. We defer recognition of non-refundable upfront license fees if the performance obligations are not satisfied. Non-refundable, up-front fees that are not contingent on any future performance and require no consequential continuing involvement by us, are recognized as revenue when the license term commences and the licensed data, technology or product is delivered. We defer recognition of non-refundable upfront license fees if the performance obligations are not satisfied. Prior to recognizing revenue, we make estimates of the transaction price, including variable consideration that is subject to a constraint. Amounts of variable consideration are included in the transaction price to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur and when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. If there are multiple distinct performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. The standalone selling price is generally determined based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus margin. Revenue is recognized by measuring the progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligations. During the first quarter of 2018, we entered into a sub-license agreement with CANbridge, to pursue regulatory approval and commercialize NERLYNX, if approved, in the People’s Republic of China (including mainland China, Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan). The license agreement granted intellectual property rights and set forth the parties’ respective obligations with respect to development, commercialization and supply of the licensed product. For the license agreement, a non-refundable, upfront license fee was received and recognized as license revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 606. The license agreement met the contract existence criteria and contained distinct, identifiable performance obligations for which the stand-alone selling prices were readily determinable and allocable. We are obligated to supply CANbridge with the licensed product in accordance with the supply agreement entered into in connection with the license agreement. This supply arrangement has been identified as a separate performance obligation. We also identified the Joint Steering Committee as a separate, distinct performance obligation. To determine the stand-alone selling price, weestimated the transaction prices, including any variable consideration, at contract inception and determined the fair value of such obligations based on similar arrangements. When determining the transaction prices, we assumed that the goods or services will be transferred to the customer based on the terms of the existing contract, and did not take into consideration the possibility of a contract being canceled, renewed, or modified. We noted there was no additional variable consideration, significant financing components, noncash consideration, or consideration payable to the customer in this agreement.This license agreement also includes potential future milestone and royalty payments due to us upon successful completion of certain separate, distinct performance obligations.Pursuant to the CANbridge Agreement, we will potentially receive regulatory milestone payments totaling up to $30 million and sales-based milestone payments totaling up to $185 million. In addition, we are entitled to receive significant double-digit royalties calculated as a percentage of net sales of the licensed products in the CANbridge Territory. During the fourth quarter of 2018, we received a $10 million payment from CANBridge in relation to a regulatory milestone. We satisfied the necessary performance obligations to recognize this license revenue under the terms of the arrangement. estimated the transaction prices, including any variable consideration, at contract inception and determined the fair value of such obligations based on similar arrangements. When determining the transaction prices, we assumed that the goods or services will be transferred to the customer based on the terms of the existing contract, and did not take into consideration the possibility of a contract being canceled, renewed, or modified. We noted there was no additional variable consideration, significant financing components, noncash consideration, or consideration payable to the customer in this agreement. Pursuant to the CANbridge Agreement, we will potentially receive regulatory milestone payments totaling up to $30 million and sales-based milestone payments totaling up to $185 million. In addition, we are entitled to receive significant double-digit royalties calculated as a percentage of net sales of the licensed products in the CANbridge Territory. During the fourth quarter of 2018, we received a $10 million payment from CANBridge in relation to a regulatory milestone. We satisfied the necessary performance obligations to recognize this license revenue under the terms of the arrangement. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2018, we entered into a sub-license agreement with Pint. The license agreement granted intellectual property rights and set forth the respective obligations with respect to development, commercialization and supply of NERLYNX in Mexico and 21 countries and territories in Central and South America. This license agreement met the contract existence criteria and contained distinct, identifiable performance obligations for which the stand-alone selling prices were readily determinable and allocable.Under the terms of the license agreement, we were entitled to receive a non-deductible, non-creditable upfront payment of $10 million upon providing certain required documents on or before September 30, 2018to the satisfaction of Pint. During the quarter ended September 30, 2018 we satisfied this performance obligation and revenue has been recognized under the terms of the arrangement.We are obligated to supply Pint with the licensed product during development pursuant to a supply agreement. This supply arrangement has been identified as a separate performance obligation. To determine the respective stand-alone selling prices, weestimated the transaction prices, including any variable consideration, at contract inception and determined the fair value of such obligations based on similar arrangements. When determining the transaction prices, we assumed that the goods or services will be transferred to the customer based on the terms of the existing contract, and did not take into consideration the possibility of a contract being canceled, renewed, or modified. We noted there was no additional variable consideration, significant financing components, noncash consideration, or consideration payable to the customer in these agreements.This license agreement also includes potential future milestone and royalty payments due to us upon successful completion of certain separate, distinct events, such as achieving regulatory approvals. Thenon-deductible, non-creditablemilestones consist of certain development and commercial performance obligations, and we could earn up to approximately $24.5 million if all remaining, respective performance obligations are achieved. At this time, we cannot estimate when these milestone-related performance obligations are expected to be achieved.The period between when we transfer control of the promised goods to a customer and when we receive payment from such customer is expected to be one year or less. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2018, we entered into a sub-license agreement with Pint. The license agreement granted intellectual property rights and set forth the respective obligations with respect to development, commercializ ation and supply of NERLYNX in Mexico and 21 countries and territories in Central and South America. This license agreement met the contract existence criteria and contained distinct, identifiable performance obligations for which the stand-alone selling p Under the terms of the license agreement, we were entitled to receive a non-deductible, non-creditable upfront payment of $10 million upon providing certain required documents on or before September 30, 2018 to the satisfaction of Pint. During the quarter ended September 30, 2018 we satisfied this performance obligation and revenue has been recognized under the terms of the arrangement. We are obligated to supply Pint with the licensed product during develop ment pursuant to a supply agreement. This supply arrangement has been identified as a separate performance obligation. To determine the respective stand-alone selling prices, we estimated the transaction prices, including any variable consideration, at co ntract inception and determined the fair value of such obligations based on similar arrangements. When determining the transaction prices, we assumed that the goods or services will be transferred to the customer based on the terms of the existing contract , and did not take into consideration the possibility of a contract being canceled, renewed, or modified. We noted there was no additional variable consideration, significant financing components, noncash consideration, or consideration payable to the cust This license agreement also includes potential future milestone and royalty payments due to us upon successful completion of certain separate, distinct events, such as achieving regulatory approvals. The milestones consist of certain development and commercial performance obligations, and we could earn up to approximately $24.5 million if all remaining, respective performance obligations are achieved. At this time, we cannot estimate when these mil estone-related performance obligations are expected to be achieved. The period between when we transfer control of the promised goods to a customer and when we receive payment from such customer is expected to be one year or less. Revenue from product sales are recorded at the net sales price (transaction price), which includes estimates of variable consideration for which reserves are established. Components of variable consideration include trade discounts and allowances, product returns, provider chargebacks and discounts, government rebates, payor rebates, and other incentives, such as voluntary patient assistance, and other allowances that are offered within contracts between us and our customers, payors, and other indirect customers relating to the sale of our products. These reserves, as detailed below, are based on the amounts earned, or to be claimed on the related sales, and are classified as reductions of accounts receivable or a current liability. These estimates take into consideration a range of possible outcomes which are probability-weighted in accordance with the expected value method in Topic 606 for relevant factors such as current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, industry data, and forecasted customer buying and payment patterns. Overall, these reserves reflect our best estimates of the amount of consideration to which it is entitled based on the terms of the respective underlying contracts. The amount of variable consideration which is included in the transaction price may be constrained, and is included in the net sales price only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of the cumulative revenue recognized under the contract will not occur in a future period. Our analyses also contemplated application of the constraint in accordance with the guidance, under which it determined a material reversal of revenue would not occur in a future period for the estimates detailed below as of December 31, 2018 and, therefore, the transaction price was not reduced further during the year ended December 31, 2018. Actual amounts of consideration ultimately received may differ from our estimates. If actual results in the future vary from our estimates, we will adjust these estimates, which would affect net product revenue and earnings in the period such variances become known. We generally provide customers with discounts which include incentive fees that are explicitly stated in our contracts and are recorded as a reduction of revenue in the period the related product revenue is recognized. In addition, we compensate (through trade discounts and allowances) our Customers for sales order management, data, and distribution services. However, we have determined such services received to date are not distinct from our sale of products to the Customer and, therefore, these payments have been recorded as a reduction of revenue within the statement of operations and comprehensive loss through December 31, 2018. Consistent with industry practice, we offer the specialty pharmacies and specialty distributors limited product return rights for damaged and expiring products, provided it is within a specified period around the product expiration date as set forth in the applicable individual distribution agreement. We estimate the amount of our product sales that may be returned by our customers and record this estimate as a reduction of revenue in the period the related product revenue is recognized, as well a reduction to trade receivables, net on the consolidated balance sheets. We currently estimate product returns using our sales information, including our visibility into the inventory remaining in the distribution channel. We have an insignificant amount of returns to date and believe that returns of our products will continue to be minimal. Chargebacks for fees and discounts to providers represent the estimated obligations resulting from contractual commitments to sell products to qualified healthcare providers at prices lower than the list prices charged to customers who directly purchase the product from us. Customers charge us for the difference between what they pay for the product and the ultimate selling price to the qualified healthcare providers. These reserves are established in the same period that the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the establishment of a current liability. Chargeback amounts are generally determined at the time of resale to the qualified healthcare provider by customers, and we generally issue payments for such amounts within a few weeks of the customer’s notification to us of the resale. Reserves for chargebacks consist of payments that we expect to issue for units that remain in the distribution channel at each reporting period-end that we expect will be sold to qualified healthcare providers, and chargebacks that customers have claimed, but for which we have not yet issued a payment. We are subject to discount obligations under state Medicaid programs and Medicare. These reserves are recorded in the same period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the establishment of a current liability which is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets Our liability for these rebates consists of invoices received for claims from prior quarters that have not been paid or for which an invoice has not yet been received, estimates of claims for the current quarter, and estimated future claims that will be made for product that has been recognized as revenue, but which remains in the distribution channel at the end of each reporting period. We contract with certain private payor organizations, primarily insurance companies and pharmacy benefit managers, for the payment of rebates with respect to utilization of its products. We estimate these rebates and records such estimates in the same period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the establishment of a current liability. Other incentives which we offer include voluntary patient assistance programs, such as the co-pay assistance program, which are intended to provide financial assistance to qualified commercially-insured patients with prescription drug co-payments required by payors. The calculation of the accrual for co-pay assistance is based on an estimate of claims and the cost per claim that we expect to receive associated with product that has been recognized as revenue, but remains in the distribution channel at the end of each reporting period. The adjustments are recorded in the same period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the establishment of a current liability which is included as a component of accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. In January 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2016-01,Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. ASU No. 2016-01 requires equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income; simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values by requiring a qualitative assessment to identify impairment; eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet; requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes; requires an entity to present separately in other comprehensive income the portion of the total change in the fair value of a liability resulting from a change in the instrument-specific credit risk when the entity has elected to measure the liability at fair value in accordance with the fair value option for financial instruments; requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial assets on the balance sheet or the accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements; and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets. ASU No. 2016-01 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We adopted ASU No. 2016-01 in the first quarter of 2018 with no impact to our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02,Leases. The amendments in ASU 2016-02 will require organizations that lease assets, with lease terms of more than 12 months, to recognize on their balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases.Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease. However, unlike current GAAP that requiresonly capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, ASU No. 2016-02 will require both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet. We expect that this standard will have a material effect on its financial statements. While we continue toassess all of the effects of adoption, it currently believes the most significant effects relate to the recognition of new right of use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for our office and equipment operating leases. We does not expect a significant change in its leasing activities between now and adoption. ASU 2016-02 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-02 on our outstanding leases and expects that adoption will materially We are adopting ASU No. 2016-02 in the first quarter of 2019, which we expect to result in an increase in our assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, related to recording right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities of up to approximately $30 million. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU N . The amendments in ASU 2016-02 will require organizations that lease assets, with lease terms of more than 12 months, to recognize on their balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases. Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease. However, unlike current GAAP that requires only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, ASU No. 2016- 02 will require both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet. We expect that this standard will have a material effect on its financial statements. While we continue to assess all of the effects of adoption, it currently believes the most significant effects relate to the recognition of new right of use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for our office and equipment operating leases. We does not expect a s ignificant change in its leasing activities between now and adoption. ASU 2016-02 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently in th e process of evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-02 on our outstanding leases and expects that adoption will materially We are adopting ASU No. 2016-02 in the first quarter of 2019, which we expect to result in an increase in our assets and liabilities on ou r consolidated balance sheets, related to recording right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities of up to approximately $30 million. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15,Statement of Cash Flows(Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments(a consensus of the Emerging Issues Task Force), which addresses the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. This update addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice. ASU 2016-15 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. We adopted ASU 2016-15 in the first quarter of 2018 with no impact to its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. : Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments a consensus of the Emerging Issues Task Force In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18,Statement of Cash Flows(Topic 230):Restricted Cashthat changes the presentation of restricted cash and cash equivalents on the statement of cash flows. Restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. This amendment is effective for us in the fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2017, but early adoption is permissible. We adopted ASU 2016-18 in the first quarter of 2018. We noted a change in the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts within the statement of cash flows due to the inclusion of restricted cash within cash and cash equivalents.